NOTE_ID: note_290	SOURCE_FILE: note_290.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED] is a 52 year old-year-old male who presents with abnormal airway and bronchopleural .  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31648 Bronchial valve removal initial  lobe
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The airway was inspected. The vocal cords, trachea, right lung, and left lower lobe were normal appearing.
 
The four valves were visualized in the left upper lobe and the lingula.
 
Alligator forceps were used to grasp each valve and remove en bloc with the bronchoscope. The valves were sent for pathology and culture.
 
There was some thick mucus behind some of the valves.
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and blood. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Apical-Posterior Segment of LUL (LB1/2), Anterior Segment of LUL (LB3), Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4), and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 20 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
Left upper lobe and lingula endobronchial valves
Left upper lobe and lingula bronchoalveolar lavage
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED] is a 52 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for valve removal.
 
-Follow up CXR
-Follow up bronchoscopic lab work
-Admit and monitor for pneumothorax


