NOTE_ID: note_340	SOURCE_FILE: note_340.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 62 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31630 Balloon dilation
31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
31635 Foreign body removal
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP UCSD CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a rigid bronchoscopy and cryospray which required significant more resources, staff and time for coordination and administration of therapies. This resulted in >50% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy). 
  
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Rigid Bronchoscope
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appear normal. The subglottic space is normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Airway exam notable for intact RMSB anastomosis, LMSB with stent (10x30 Bonastent) in good position with no appreciable stenosis or malacia proximal to the stent.  
Moderate secretions bilaterally L > R. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Left Mainstem, and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and mucus plug. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Anterior Segment of LUL (LB3).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
After induction of muscle relaxants, tooth or gum protector was placed. The black long rigid barrel was introduced through the mouth and advanced in the midline while keeping the alignment with the axis of the trachea and minimizing pressure to the teeth. The vocal cords were identified and the rigid bronchoscope was advanced carefully while minimizing contact with them. Once the rigid bronchoscope was positioned at the mid-trachea, jet ventilation (24 DP, 80 F, 100% FiO2) was initiated and chest wall movement was confirmed. Intubation was easy. 
 
Next, so as to be able to deliver cryotherapy to the stenotic underlying segment of the airway, the foreign body (10x30 bonastent) was removed from the LMSB using rigid forceps. 
 
The mid to distal LMSB underlying the stent was seen to have mild circumferential granulation tissue and ~25% stenosis at the distal end of the airway. 
 
Endobronchial obstruction at Left Mainstem was treated with the following modalities:
 

Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
TruFreeze CryoSpray	Probe	Low Flow	10sec freezes, x5 cycles	Ablation
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Left Mainstem.  10/11/12 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm and 12 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 2 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 75% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 100% patent. 
 
Next, the stenotic segment of the airway was remeasured to be ~25mm. The following stent (12x30 Microtech) was placed in the Left Mainstem. 
 
At the end of the case, the rigid barrel was extubated and LMA was replaced. The cords were bathed with lidocaine. About 5 min later, the patient noted to have laryngospasm with difficulty bagging through LMA. Scope was used to stent open the cords, bathe them with lido again but despite this the laryngospasm persisted. Ultimately required small dose of succinylcholine which broke the spasm. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
- Foreign body/LMSB stent (path)
- LUL BAL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 62 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis.
 
- repeat bronch in 6-8 weeks for possible additional cryospray and stent swap, though ultimate liberation from stent may be limited by malacic component of the stenosis 
 
Jorge Alberto Munoz Pineda, MD



