NOTE_ID: note_321	SOURCE_FILE: note_321.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 54 year old-year-old male who presents with mucus plugging, lung consolidation.  
 
CONSENT: Consent obtained before the procedure. The nature, indications, purpose, benefits, risks, potential complications, and alternatives to the procedure were discussed with the patient or surrogate decision-maker in detail.  Patient or surrogate decision-maker agreed to proceed with procedure.  The patient or surrogate decision-maker read and signed the provided consent form or provided consent over the phone. If consent was provided over the phone, then the consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.  
 
All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
PROCEDURE:  
31899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS)
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    

 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
The following medications were provided:
Versed             3 mg
Fentanyl          50 mcg
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   10:33 AM
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   10:55 AM
Total moderate sedation time was 22 minutes.  
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   Sedation was administered by Ivan Chavez.  
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
A timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  Sedation initiated.  Bite blocker placed.
 
The Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope was advanced for airway examination.  Endobronchial topical lidocaine applied to the vocal cords, main carina, right carina 1, and left carina 2.
 
Initial Airway Examination Findings:
Pharynx: Normal.
Larynx: Normal.
Vocal Chords: Normal without mass/lesions
Trachea: Normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to the first subsegmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Significant mucous plug completing obstructing the left mainstem bronchus, LUL, Lingula, and LLL.  After aspiration, patient noted to have normal anatomic branching to the first subsegmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: As described above.  All secretions were suctioned to clear (therapeutic aspiration).
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the trachea, right mainstem bronchus, right upper lobe, bronchus intermedius, right middle lobe, right lower lobe, left mainstem bronchus, left upper lobe, left lower lobe from mucus and mucus plug.  After therapeutic aspiration, all visible airways were fully patent.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral-basal Segment of LLL (LB9).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 20 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Chemistry, Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), Cytology, and Pathology.
 
Residual secretions and saline suctioned to clear.  Bronchoscope removed.
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient's Bite blocker was removed in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
LLL BAL:  cell count, cultures/micro, cytology
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 54 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for mucous plug.
 
 
