NOTE_ID: note_351	SOURCE_FILE: note_351.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED]is a 45 year old-year-old female who presents with lung nodule and lymphadenopathy.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R59.0 Localized enlarged lymph nodes
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R59.0 Localized enlarged lymph nodes
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31652 EBUS sampling 1 or 2 nodes
76982 Ultrasound Elastography, First Target Lesion
76983 Ultrasound Elastography, Additional Targets 
76983 Ultrasound Elastography, Additional Target 2
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP UCSD CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a Multiple Bronchoalveolar lavages in different locations. This resulted in >40% increased work due to Increased intensity, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    . 

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Linear EBUS 
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Apical-Posterior Segment of LUL (LB1/2).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Anterior Segment of LUL (LB3).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
EBUS-Findings
Indications: Diagnostic
Technique:
All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 5 mm or greater in short axis were sampled.
 
Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS and sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed using 21-gauge Needle and 19-gauge Needle.
 
Lymph Nodes/Sites Inspected: 4R (lower paratracheal) node
4L (lower paratracheal) node
7 (subcarinal) node
10R lymph node
10L lymph node
11Rs lymph node
11L lymph node
 
Overall ROSE Diagnosis: inflammation
 
No immediate complications
 
Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. Elastography provided a semi-quantitative classification (Type 1 3), which was used to guide biopsy site selection and sampling strategy. 
 
Lymph Nodes Evaluated:
Site 1: The 4L (lower paratracheal) node was => 10 mm on CT and Metabolic activity unknown or PET-CT scan unavailable. The lymph node was photographed. The site was sampled.. 6 endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial biopsies were performed with samples obtained. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given this heterogeneous and indeterminate appearance, TBNA was directed at representative areas to ensure comprehensive sampling and to minimize the risk of underdiagnosis.
Preliminary ROSE Cytology was reported as adequate and suggestive of Inflamation. Final results are pending.
 
Site 2-5: station 4R, 7, 11L, 11R, 10R Elastography and measurements were done but none met biopsy criteria and showed benign features on elastography. 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
4L TBNA
BAL LUL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED]is a 45 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for LUL nodule and lymphadenopathy.
- f/u cultures
