NOTE_ID: note_299	SOURCE_FILE: note_299.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED] is a 70 year old-year-old female who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31630 Balloon dilation
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required) and XS Separate Structure, a service that is distinct because it was performed on a separate organ/structure
 
Patient required balloon dilation to the right lower lobe medial basal subsegment as well as the right middle lobe to improve airway patency. Cryotherapy via cryoprobe was required at both airways to ensure durable benefit.
 
IP UCSD CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a multiple modalities to multiple airways for treatment of airway stenosis. This resulted in >50% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31630 Balloon dilation
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy). 

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Flexible Hybrid (Pedatric) Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: Supine
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The laryngeal mask airway is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.
Larynx: Not fully assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.
Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions
Trachea: Normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: There was narrowing at the distal bronchus intermedius and truncus basalis. The RML orifice and RLL medial basal were noted to have stenosis. Otherwise, the right-sided airways had normal anatomic branching to the segmental level with no evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.  
 
RML AND RLL AIRWAYS
 
 
Initially, the RML and RLL were not able to be assess with the therapeutic bronchoscope so the hybrid scope was utilized to evaluate the RML and RLL airways.
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
Balloon dilation was performed at RLL medial basal subsegment (RB7).  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the RLL medial basal subsegment (RB7).  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
Balloon dilation was performed at RML Carina (RC2).  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the RML Carina (RC2).  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
In sum, airway stenosis at RML Carina (RC2) and RLL medial basal subsegement (RB7) was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Balloon dilation	6/7/8 Elation balloon	N/A	60-second applications	Good relief of stenosis
Cryoprobe	2.4mm cryoprobe	N/A	30-second freeze cycles	Good application of cryotherapy
 
Prior to treatment, affected airways were note to be 20% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 60% patent. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
RML AND RLL AIRWAYS AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE PROCEDURE
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--RML BAL (cell count, micro, cyto)
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED] is a 70 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for evaluation of airway stenosis. The patient was noted to have stenosis most prominent at the RML and RLL medial basal subsegment. These areas of stenosis were treated with balloon dilation followed by application of cryotherapy via cryoprobe. The patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.
 
--Post procedure CXR
--Follow up BAL results
--Repeat bronchoscopy in appx 2 months (with cryospray available); CR has been submitted
--Return precautions given
 

