NOTE_ID: note_308	SOURCE_FILE: note_308.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 57 year old-year-old male who presents with abnormal airway.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing          
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The airway was inspected. The vocal cords were normal appearing. 
 
The airway anatomy was scarred and somewhat distorted, but similar to previous appearances.
 
The right middle lobe was narrowed, it was not able to be traversed with the therapeutic bronchoscope or the single use slim scope.
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
The right middle lobe was not dilated, but we will monitor it.
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
right middle lobe bronchoalveolar lavage
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 57 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for airway inspection and evaluation.
 
-Plan for follow up bronchoscopy in ~4 weeks
-Follow up bronchoscopic lab work
 
