NOTE_ID: note_336	SOURCE_FILE: note_336.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 61 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing          
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s)
31630 Balloon dilation
31640 Bronchoscopy with excision 
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
Mod 59 for the 31625

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appear normal. The subglottic space is normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. RMSB anastomosis was well healed and patent. The LMSB stent was in good position, partially occluded (~50%) by mucus. There was some granulation tissue at the proximal and distal edge of the stent. Moderate to large burden of white secretions in the left airways. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Left Mainstem, LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and mucus plug. This was done prior to airway inspection above
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Anteromedial Segment of LLL (Lb7/8).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 10 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Endobronchial obstruction at Left Carina (LC2)  laterally was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	1.5	precise	intermittent	Removal of airway tumor
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	 	 	 	 
Following APC forceps were used to perform endobronchial biopsy and tumor excision with forceps
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 80% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 10% patent. 
 
Endobronchial obstruction at LMSB (proximal and distal edge of stent) was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	2.4mm probe	 	30sec freeze and thaw	Ablation
Following the cryoprobe the airway was dilated with an 8, 9, 10 CRE balloon to 10 mm. A total of 2 dilations were performed and each dilation was 1 minute. Total dilation time was 2 minutes.
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 80% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 100% patent. 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
- LLL BAL 
- left hilar tumor
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 61 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis.
 
- f/u BAL results
- stent exchange in 4 weeks
 
