NOTE_ID: note_359	SOURCE_FILE: note_359.txt
PROCEDURE: Flexible bronchoscopy with BAL and TBBX under moderate sedation
INDICATION : Lung Transplant 

 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient. The patient read and signed the provided consent form. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical proffesional.
 
MONITORING : Continuous telemetry, BP and oxygen saturation monitored
INSTRUMENT : Olympus Video Bronchoscope
ANESTHESIA : Moderate IV sedation with: fentanyl 50 mcg IV and Versed 2 mg IV; Local anesthesia with: Lidocaine 2% Solution ~8ml via adomizer
Sedation time was 15 min during this procedure
Sedation start time 09:06 AM
Sedation end time 09:21 AM
 
Time out: Immediately prior to procedure a time out was called to verify the correct patient, procedure, equipment, support staff and site/side  marked as required.  
 
SUMMARY : Initially a time-out was performed prior to the procedure, confirming the patient's name, procedure type and procedure location. After the patient was properly positioned and sedated and topical anesthesia applied, the bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth with O2 being administered at all times / with the patient continuously on the ventilator. This was done without difficulty. The bronchoscope was passed by the carina, which was examined for sharpness, position and texture. The bronchial orifices were systematically identified, evaluated and suctioned free of secretions and close attention was paid to color, texture, positions, size and patency.
 
FINDINGS
Pharynx: Normal 
Larynx: Normal 
Vocal Chords: Normal 

 
Trachea: Normal 

 
Carina: Sharp

 
Bronchial Tree
Right Lung: Normal anastamosis, no strictures, ischemia or black eschar
 

 
 
Left Lung: Normal anastamosis, no strictures, ischemia or black eschar, but there is a malacia noted

 
 

 
 
No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other intra-bronchial pathology.
Mucosa: normal
Secretions: none. 
 
Studies/samples: 
1. BAL 1: 40 cc instilled in the RLL and 22 cc returned
2. Biopsies: 9 TBBX attempted and 7 samples obtained from the RLL
- EBL: none
Complications: None
 
 
IMPRESSION: 
Flexible bronchoscopy with BAL and TBBX under moderate sedation
For TBBX, it is an Excision (cutting out tissue e.g. oval fenestrated forceps) 
 
Post procedure, no dyspnea, chest pain or changes to his voice
Exam: CTA over the area of the lavage and biopsy, no voice change or crepitus noted
Samples sent for microbiology and pathology
 


