NOTE_ID: note_350	SOURCE_FILE: note_350.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED]is a 42 year old-year-old female who presents with lung nodule.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule
 
PROCEDURE:  
31899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS)
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31628 TBBX single lobe     
31629 TBNA single lobe   
31627 Navigational Bronchoscopy (computer assisted)
77012 Radiology / radiologic guidance for CT guided needle placement (CIOS)
76377 3D rendering with interpretation and reporting of CT, US, Tomo modality (ION Planning Station)
31899NFN BRONCHOSCOPY WITH ENDOBRONCHIAL ULTRASOUND (EBUS) OF MEDIASTINAL AND/OR HILAR LYMPH NODES WITHOUT BIOPSY
31654 Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion
76981 Ultrasound Elastography, Parenchyma of Organ
31630 Balloon dilation
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP UCSD CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a Transbronchial Cryo biopsies. This resulted in >40% increased work due to Technical difficulty of procedure and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31628 TBBX single lobe     . 
 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Linear EBUS 
Radial EBUS
Ion Robotic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
CT Chest scan was placed on separate planning station to generate 3D rendering of the pathway to target.   The navigational plan was reviewed and verified.  This was then loaded into robotic bronchoscopy platform. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Ventilation Parameters:

Mode	RR	TV	PEEP	FiO2	Flow Rate	Pmean
vcv	12	350	12	100	10	15
 
Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with Ion platform.  Partial registration was used.    Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Apical Segment of RUL (RB1).  
 
Balloon dilation was performed at RB1 subsegment to get through the distal carina.  4mm mustang balloon was used to perform dilation to 4 mm at the RB1 subsegment.  Total 1 inflations with dilation time of 30 seconds each.
 
Radial EBUS was performed to confirm that the location of the nodule is Eccentric.  The following features were noted: Continuous margin  and Absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.
 
Target lesion is about 1 cm in diameter.   Under navigational guidance the ion robotic catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target. 
 
Cone Beam CT was performed: 3-D reconstructions were performed on an independent workstation.  Cios Spin system was used for evaluation of nodule location.  Low dose spin was performed to acquire CT imaging.  This was passed on to Ion platform system for reconstruction and nodule location.  The 3D images was interpreted on an independent workstation (Ion).   Using the newly acquired nodule location, the Ion robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location.   I personally interpreted the cone beam CT and 3-D reconstruction. 
 
Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with 21G Needle through the extended working channel catheter.  Total 4 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Cytology.
 
Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe via the extended working channel catheter.  Freeze time of 6 seconds were used.  Total 8 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Cytology and Pathology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed the extended working channel catheter.  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 25 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
ROSE from ION procedure was noted to be:
Conclusive evidence of malignant neoplasm on Frozen Section (confirmed with Dr. Grace Lin). 
 
At this time, small (avuecue) microwave catheter was used to perform ablation. Location was confirmed with CBCT. 
 
Tset of 90oC, RP of 3, Tmax reached of 75oC, Total 12.2KJ delivered over 10mins.
 
Post abation 10mins CBCT was done to assess interval changes. 
 
Prior to withdrawal of the bronchoscope, inspection demonstrated no evidence of bleeding.
 
EBUS-Findings
Indications: Diagnostic and Staging
Technique:
All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 10 mm or greater in short axis were sampled.
 
Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS and no lymph nodes met the biopsy criteria.  
 
Lymph Nodes/Sites Inspected: 4R (lower paratracheal) node
4L (lower paratracheal) node
7 (subcarinal) node
10R lymph node
10L lymph node
11Rs lymph node
11Ri lymph node
11L lymph node
 
No immediate complications
 
Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. Elastography provided a semi-quantitative classification (Type 1 3), which was used to guide biopsy site selection and sampling strategy. 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
RUL TBCBX, TBNA, BAL 
Ablation
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED]is a 42 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for biopsy and ablation. 
 
- CXR now
- CT CHEST in 3-4 weeks post
- f/u in clinic for results
- f/u with CT surgery for assessment. 


