NOTE_ID: note_307	SOURCE_FILE: note_307.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 56 year old-year-old male who presents with lung mass.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31652 EBUS sampling 1 or 2 nodes
76982 Ultrasound Elastography, First Target Lesion
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
XS Separate Structure, a service that is distinct because it was performed on a separate organ/structure
32552 Removal of indwelling tunneled pleural catheter with cuff

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Linear EBUS 
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4) and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 20 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
EBUS-Findings
Indications: Diagnostic
Technique:
All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 5 mm or greater in short axis were sampled.
 
Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS and sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed using 25-gauge Needle, 22-gauge Needle, and 19-gauge Needle.
 
Lymph Nodes/Sites Inspected: 11L lymph node
 
Overall ROSE Diagnosis: Positive for malignancy
 
No immediate complications
 
Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. Elastography provided a semi-quantitative classification (Type 1 3), which was used to guide biopsy site selection and sampling strategy. 
 
Lymph Nodes Evaluated:
Site 1: The 11L lymph node was => 10 mm on CT and Metabolic activity unknown or PET-CT scan unavailable. The lymph node was photographed. The site was sampled.. 8 endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial biopsies were performed with samples obtained. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given this heterogeneous and indeterminate appearance, TBNA was directed at representative areas to ensure comprehensive sampling and to minimize the risk of underdiagnosis.
Preliminary ROSE Cytology was reported as adequate and suggestive of Positive for malignancy. Final results are pending.
 
Endobronchial obstruction at LB1/2 LB3/4 was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	1.5 mm	Pulse apc 2	15s	ablated
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	 	 	 	 
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 75% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 90% patent. 
 
TPC removal:
 
Side: ? ? Left 
 
CHEST ULTRASOUND FINDINGS:  ? Image saved and printed 
Hemithorax:   ? ? Left 
 
Pleural Effusion: 
Volume:       ? Moderate  ? 
Echogenicity:     ? Hyperechoic 
Loculations:  ? ? Thick 
Diaphragmatic Motion:  ? ? Diminished  ? 
Lung: 
Lung sliding before procedure:   ? ? Absent 
Lung sliding post procedure:   ? ? Absent 
Lung consolidation/atelectasis: ? ?  Absent 
Pleura:  ? ? Thick  ? 
 
Reason for TPC removal: 
? 
Catheter Site:       ?  Clean/dry     ? 
Anesthesia:? Yes ? 
Sutured: ? ? No 
 
Clean dry dressing applied and should remain in place for a minimum of 72 hours. Ok to shower with occlusive dressing.  
 
Complications:  
  No 
 
Antibiotics:  
No 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
11L TBNB TBNA
BAL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 56 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for lymph node biopsy and airway evaluation.
 
- preserve for NGS
- f/u cxr

