NOTE_ID: note_282	SOURCE_FILE: note_282.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED] is a 29 year old-year-old male who presents with lung abnormalities.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing          
31623 Dx bronchoscope/brushing    
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31628 TBBX single lobe     
31632 TBBX additional lobes  
31629 TBNA single lobe   
31633 TBNA additional lobes   
31626 Fiducial marker placements, single or multiple     
31627 Navigational Bronchoscopy (computer assisted)
77012 Radiology / radiologic guidance for CT guided needle placement (CIOS)
76377 3D rendering with interpretation and reporting of CT, US, Tomo modality (ION Planning Station)
31653 EBUS sampling 3 or more nodes  
31654 Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion
76981 Ultrasound Elastography, Parenchyma of Organ
76982 Ultrasound Elastography, First Target Lesion
76983 Ultrasound Elastography, Additional Targets 
76983 Ultrasound Elastography, Additional Target 2
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP UCSD CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a Transbronchial Cryo biopsies, Robotic Navigation to more than one site, Multiple Bronchoalveolar lavages in different locations, Brushings at multiple locations, and Radial EBUS performed at multiple locations. This resulted in >50% increased work due to Increased intensity, Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31623 Dx bronchoscope/brushing    
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31628 TBBX single lobe     
31632 TBBX additional lobes  
31627 Navigational Bronchoscopy (computer assisted)
77012 Radiology / radiologic guidance for CT guided needle placement (CIOS)
76377 3D rendering with interpretation and reporting of CT, US, Tomo modality (ION Planning Station)
31654 Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion. 

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Linear EBUS 
Radial EBUS
Ion Robotic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Normal appearing airway anatomy and mucosa bilaterally to the segmental level.
 
CT Chest scan was placed on separate planning station to generate 3D rendering of the pathway to target.   The navigational plan was reviewed and verified.  This was then loaded into robotic bronchoscopy platform. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
Ventilation Parameters:
Mode	RR	TV	PEEP	FiO2	Flow Rate	Pmean
VCV	 	400	12	100	9.5	15
 
 
Target right lower lobe 
Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with Ion platform.  Partial registration was used.    Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Posterior-basal Segment of RLL (RB10).  Target lesion is about 3 cm in diameter.   Under navigational guidance the ion robotic catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target. 
 
Radial EBUS was performed to confirm that the location of the nodule is Eccentric.  The following features were noted: Continuous margin  and Absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.
 
Cone Beam CT was performed: 3-D reconstructions were performed on an independent workstation.  Cios Spin system was used for evaluation of nodule location.  Low dose spin was performed to acquire CT imaging.  This was passed on to Ion platform system for reconstruction and nodule location.  The 3D images was interpreted on an independent workstation (Ion).   Using the newly acquired nodule location, the Ion robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location.   I personally interpreted the cone beam CT and 3-D reconstruction. 
 
Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with 21G Needle through the extended working channel catheter.  Total 5 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), Cytology, and Flow.
 
Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe via the extended working channel catheter.  Freeze time of 6 seconds were used.  Total 8 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) and Pathology.
 
Fiducial marker (0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold CIVCO) was loaded with bone wax and placed under fluoroscopy guidance. Prior to withdraw of the bronchoscope. 
 
Transbronchial brushing was performed with Protected cytology brush the extended working channel catheter.  Total 1 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Cytology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed the extended working channel catheter.  Instilled 20 cc of NS, suction returned with 5 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).
 
ROSE from ION procedure was noted to be:
Histiocytes
 
 
 
Target right middle lobe 
Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with Ion platform.  Partial registration was used.    Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Lateral Segment of RML (RB4).  Target lesion is about 1.5 cm in diameter.   Under navigational guidance the ion robotic catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target. 
 
Radial EBUS was performed to confirm that the location of the nodule is Eccentric.  The following features were noted: Continuous margin  and Absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.
 
Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with 21G Needle through the extended working channel catheter.  Total 4 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) and Cytology.
 
Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe via the extended working channel catheter.  Freeze time of 6 seconds were used.  Total 6 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) and Pathology.
 
Fiducial marker (0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold CIVCO) was loaded with bone wax and placed under fluoroscopy guidance. Prior to withdraw of the bronchoscope. 
 
Transbronchial brushing was performed with Protected cytology brush the extended working channel catheter.  Total 1 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Cytology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed the extended working channel catheter.  Instilled 20 cc of NS, suction returned with 5 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
ROSE from ION procedure was noted to be:
Cells present causing suspicion of malignant neoplasm
 
 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and blood. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Apical-Posterior Segment of LUL (LB1/2), Anterior Segment of LUL (LB3), Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4), and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of RLL (RB6), Medial-basal Segment of RLL (RB7), Anterior-basal Segment of RLL (RB8), Lateral-basal Segment of RLL (RB9), and Posterior-basal Segment of RLL (RB10).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
 
 
EBUS-Findings
Indications: Diagnostic
Technique:
All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 5 mm or greater in short axis were sampled.
 
Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS and sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed using 22-gauge Needle.
 
Lymph Nodes/Sites Inspected: 4R (lower paratracheal) node
4L (lower paratracheal) node
7 (subcarinal) node
11Rs lymph node
11Ri lymph node
11L lymph node
 
No immediate complications
 
Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. Elastography provided a semi-quantitative classification (Type 1 3), which was used to guide biopsy site selection and sampling strategy. 
 
Lymph Nodes Evaluated:
Site 1: The 11L lymph node was < 10 mm on CT  and Non-Hypermetabolic via PET-CT scan. The lymph node was photographed. The site was sampled.. 4 endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial biopsies were performed with samples obtained. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given this heterogeneous and indeterminate appearance, TBNA was directed at representative areas to ensure comprehensive sampling and to minimize the risk of underdiagnosis.
 
Site 2: The 7 (subcarinal) node was < 10 mm on CT  and Hypermetabolic via PET-CT scan. The lymph node was photographed. The site was sampled.. 4 endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial biopsies were performed with samples obtained. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given this heterogeneous and indeterminate appearance, TBNA was directed at representative areas to ensure comprehensive sampling and to minimize the risk of underdiagnosis.
 
Site 3: The 11Ri lymph node was < 10 mm on CT  and Non-Hypermetabolic via PET-CT scan. The lymph node was photographed. The site was sampled.. 4 endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial biopsies were performed with samples obtained. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given this heterogeneous and indeterminate appearance, TBNA was directed at representative areas to ensure comprehensive sampling and to minimize the risk of underdiagnosis.
 
Site 4: The 4L (lower paratracheal) node was < 10 mm on CT  and Non-Hypermetabolic via PET-CT scan. The lymph node was photographed. The site was not sampled: Sampling this lymph node was not clinically indicated.  Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given the ultrasound appearance, biopsies were not taken.
 
Site 5: The 4R (lower paratracheal) node was < 10 mm on CT  and Hypermetabolic via PET-CT scan. The lymph node was photographed. The site was not sampled: Sampling this lymph node was not clinically indicated. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics. The target lymph node demonstrated a Type 2 elastographic pattern with mixed soft and stiff regions. Given the ultrasound appearance, biopsies were not taken.
 
 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus, blood, and blood clots. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
?	Right lower lobe transbronchial needle aspiration, transbronchial cryobiopsy, transbronchial brush, subsegmental bronchoalveolar lavage, lobar bronchoalveolar lavage
?	Right middle lobe transbronchial needle aspiration, transbronchial cryobiopsy, transbronchial brush, subsegmental bronchoalveolar lavage, lobar bronchoalveolar lavage
?	Left upper lobe bronchoalveolar lavage
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED] is a 29 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for abnormal CT Chest.
 
-Follow up CXR
-Follow up bronchoscopic lab work
 
