NOTE_ID: note_352	SOURCE_FILE: note_352.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED]is a 50 year old-year-old female who presents with airway stent.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing          
 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The airway was inspected. Lidocaine was applied to the vocal cords and the airway. The vocal cords were normal appearing.
 
The stent remained in good position, there was still some over hang at the main carina. The right mainstem, right upper lobe, and the right bronchus intermedius stent segments were patent in the Y stent. There were secretions and these were suctioned.
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
None
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED]is a 50 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for airway stent inspection.
 
-Follow up in clinic to reassess symptoms and plan for follow up bronchoscopy in 4-8 weeks for stent check
 
