NOTE_ID: note_324	SOURCE_FILE: note_324.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 59 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis, surveillance bronch to assess left main stem stent.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31646 Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes
31638 Revision of tracheal/bronchial stent     
 
General Anesthesia
 
ANESTHESIA: 
Local anesthesia with: SEE MAR
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
6cc of 2% lidocaine was instilled on the vocal cords. The bronchoscope was then passed through the vocal cords into the trachea. No tracheal masses noted. Main carina was sharp. 2 cc of 2% lidocaine instilled in right main stem and left main stem. The bronchoscope was passed into the right mainstem bronchus and each segment was systematically identified and inspected. The RUL, RML and RLL were all patent. Mucosal normal without endobronchial lesions. No significant secretions. 
 
Next, attention was turned to the left sided airways. The bronchoscope was advanced into the left main bronchus and Bona stent was noted to be in good position. Biofilm noted over stent but otherwise stent patent.
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Proximal 1/3), Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Left Mainstem, LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1) and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
- None
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 59 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis.
- Repeat bronchoscopy in 4 weeks to assess for restenosis and need for stent revision
 
Attending physician, Dr. [REDACTED] was present and supervised or performed all portions of the procedure.
 
