NOTE_ID: note_335	SOURCE_FILE: note_335.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 61 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31623 Dx bronchoscope/brushing    
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The endotracheal tube is in good position. The visualized portion of the trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Airway exam notable for LMSB stent (12x40 microtech) well-seated, moderately obstructed my mucus. Widely patent airways distal to stent in left lung. 
Large burden cream-colored secretions bilaterally, L > R. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and mucus plug. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Endobronchial brushing was performed with Protected cytology brush the working channel of the scope. The brush was used to clean the inside of the stent and remove adherent mucus.  Total 2 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
- Lingula BAL 
- LMSB brushing 
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 61 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis.
 
- f/u studies
- increase stent hydration therapy to minimum BID- discussed with wife
- repeat stent inspection bronch in 6 weeks 
 
