NOTE_ID: note_345	SOURCE_FILE: note_345.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 70 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31630 Balloon dilation
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
An iGel was introduced by anesthesia. Next the bronchoscope was introduced into the iGel and advanced to the level of the vocal cords. The vocal cords are normal. A total of 6 mL of 1% lidocaine was instilled onto the vocal cords. The bronchoscope was advanced through the vocal cords into the trachea. The airways were examined to the subsegmental level bilaterally. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
The Right anastomosis is intact with minimal narrowing along the 1 oclock position. The clip is still present without granulation tissue
 
The left anastomosis is scarred to approximately 11-12 mm and the bronchoscope easily advanced distal to this. There is a short segment of stenosis just proximal to the left hilum. The therapeutic bronchoscope could not easily traverse this stenosis. The diameter was ~ 5-6 mm. 
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Left Mainstem.  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 4 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
Endobronchial obstruction at Left Mainstem was treated with the following modalities:
 

Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	1.7	30 second rapid freeze thaw cycles	Total of 6 applications were performed	Improvement in airway diameter and able to accommodate the scope 
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 50% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 70% patent. 
There were no post obstructive mucus. The LUL anterior subsegmental airway was narrowed due to collapse of the supportive structure
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
BAL LUL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 70 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for worsening dyspnea after stent removed. Pt with improvement after starting pulmonary toilet regimen. 
- plan for follow up in clinic in 2-3 weeks
Continue pulmonary toilet
 

