NOTE_ID: note_289	SOURCE_FILE: note_289.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED] is a 49 year old-year-old adult who presents with lung nodules.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 

ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Regrowth of polyp in the proximal third of trachea was noted.   There were distal airway polyp noted on the lateral side of the tracheal wall (right side).  These cluster disease areas were treated with soft coag. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Endobronchial obstruction at Vocal Cord, Subglottic, Trachea (Proximal 1/3), and Trachea (Distal 1/3) was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	2.3mm probe	Soft coag	4sec	Ablated and removed
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	1.7mm	Cryotherapy	15 sec freeze thaw, mutliple cycles	treated
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 50% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 80% patent. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
- none 
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED] is a 49 year old-year-old adult who presents for bronchoscopy for airway polyp removal.
- return in 1 month for airway inspection
 
