NOTE_ID: note_341	SOURCE_FILE: note_341.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 62 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31630 Balloon dilation
31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP UCSD CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required spray cryotherapy for treatment of bronchial stenosis. This resulted in >50% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy). The patient has a complex stenosis distal to the LMSB anastomosis that increased the technical difficulty of cryospray due to narrow airway. The stenosis is dynamic collapse and fixed stenosis. When performing the cryospray under apnea the airway lumen would collapse making the targeting of the spray more challenging.
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Rigid Bronchoscope
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
After induction of muscle relaxants, tooth or gum protector was placed. The black rigid barrel was introduced through the mouth and advanced in the midline while keeping the alignment with the axis of the trachea and minimizing pressure to the teeth. The vocal cords were identified and the rigid bronchoscope was advanced carefully while minimizing contact with them.The patient was intubated atraumatically. Once the rigid bronchoscope was positioned at the mid-trachea, jet ventilation was initiated and chest wall movement was confirmed. 
 
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through rigid bronchoscope
Larynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through rigid bronchoscope
Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through rigid bronchoscope
Trachea: Mildly tortuous
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Lung transplant anastomosis suture site noted, no stenosis. Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology. 
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Stenosis at the distal LMSB. Distal airways with normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.  
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
 
Stenosis at Left Mainstem was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Cryoprobe	Spray cryotherapy	Low flow	10-second applications x 3 treatments	Excellent application of spray cryotherapy
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 30% patent (5-6 mm).  After treatment, the airway was 50% patent 7-8 mm. 
 
Balloon dilation was then performed at the Left Mainstem stenosis.  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 1 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
Balloon dilation was then performed at Left Mainstem stenosis.  8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 1 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
The following stent (Bonastent 10mm x 30mm, covered) was placed in the Left Mainstem. 
 
Balloon dilation was then performed at Left Mainstem through the newly placed stent.  8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the distal and proximal Left Mainstem.  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 30 seconds each.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Anterior Segment of LUL (LB3).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
 
VIEW OF LMSB AFTER SPRAY CRYOTHERAPY AND STENT PLACEMENT
 

 

 

 

 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--LUL BAL (cell count, micro, cyto)
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 62 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for evaluation of bronchial stenosis. Patient underwent spray cryotherapy, balloon dilation, and bronchial stent placement without immediate complication.
 
--Post-procedure CXR
--Follow-up BAL results
--Patient to start stent hydration regimen as follows:
 
Stent Hydration Regimen TID in the following order: 
1) Albuterol nebs
2) Hypertonic saline (3%) nebs
3) Flutter valve
--Guaifenesin 1200mg PO BID
 
--Follow-up in outpatient Interventional Pulmonology clinic - order placed and message sent to IP scheduling team
--Repeat bronchoscopy in 4-6 weeks for re-evaluation and consideration of upsizing stent

 
