NOTE_ID: note_353	SOURCE_FILE: note_353.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED]is a 60 year old-year-old female who presents with lung nodule.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule
 
PROCEDURE:  
31899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS)
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31623 Dx bronchoscope/brushing    
31628 TBBX single lobe     
31629 TBNA single lobe   
31626 Fiducial marker placements, single or multiple     
31627 Navigational Bronchoscopy (computer assisted)
77012 Radiology / radiologic guidance for CT guided needle placement (CIOS)
76377 3D rendering with interpretation and reporting of CT, US, Tomo modality (ION Planning Station)
31899NFN BRONCHOSCOPY WITH ENDOBRONCHIAL ULTRASOUND (EBUS) OF MEDIASTINAL AND/OR HILAR LYMPH NODES WITHOUT BIOPSY
31654 Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Linear EBUS 
Radial EBUS
Ion Robotic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
CT Chest scan was placed on separate planning station to generate 3D rendering of the pathway to target.   The navigational plan was reviewed and verified.  This was then loaded into robotic bronchoscopy platform. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Ventilation Parameters:
Mode	RR	TV	PEEP	FiO2	Flow Rate	Pmean
vcv	12	350	12	100	10	15
 
Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with Ion platform.  Partial registration was used.    Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Apical-Posterior Segment of LUL (LB1/2).  Target lesion is about 1 cm in diameter.   Under navigational guidance the ion robotic catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target. 
 
Radial EBUS was performed to confirm that the location of the nodule is Concentric.  The following features were noted: Continuous margin .
 
Cone Beam CT was performed: 3-D reconstructions were performed on an independent workstation.  Cios Spin system was used for evaluation of nodule location.  Low dose spin was performed to acquire CT imaging.  This was passed on to Ion platform system for reconstruction and nodule location.  The 3D images was interpreted on an independent workstation (Ion).   Using the newly acquired nodule location, the Ion robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location.   I personally interpreted the cone beam CT and 3-D reconstruction. 
 
Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with 19G Needle and 21G Needle through the extended working channel catheter.  Total 4 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) and Cytology.
 
Transbronchial biopsy was performed with alligator forceps the extended working channel catheter.  Total 2 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Pathology.
 
Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe via the extended working channel catheter.  Freeze time of 6 seconds were used.  Total 6 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Pathology.
 
Transbronchial brushing was performed with Protected cytology brush the extended working channel catheter.  Total 1 samples were collected.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed the extended working channel catheter.  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Fiducial marker (0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold CIVCO) was loaded with bone wax and placed under fluoroscopy guidance. Prior to withdraw of the bronchoscope. 
 
ROSE from ION procedure was noted to be:
Silicone noted
 
Prior to withdrawal of the bronchoscope, inspection demonstrated no evidence of bleeding.
 
 
EBUS-Findings
Indications: Diagnostic and Staging
Technique:
All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 5 mm or greater in short axis were sampled.
 
Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS and no sampling done as none met biopsy criteria. 
 
Lymph Nodes/Sites Inspected: 4R (lower paratracheal) node
4L (lower paratracheal) node
7 (subcarinal) node
10R lymph node
10L lymph node
11Rs lymph node
11Ri lymph node
11L lymph node
 
No immediate complications
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
LUL - TBCBX, TBNA, Brush, TBBX, BAL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED]is a 60 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for lung nodule.
- CXR now
- f/u in clinic
 
