NOTE_ID:  note_275 SOURCE_FILE: note_275.txt 
INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT
DATE OF PROCEDURE: 
 [REDACTED]
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents with respiratory failure.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure
PROCEDURE:  
31500 Intubation, endotracheal, emergency procedure
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31638 Revision of tracheal/bronchial stent     
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
IP CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required increased time and effort for selective fiberoptic intubation of the right-sided airways and manipulation/revision of the vascular plug. This resulted in >100% increased work due to Increased intensity, Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31500 Intubation, endotracheal, emergency procedure
31638 Revision of tracheal/bronchial stent     . 
ATTENDING:  
[REDACTED]
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
Dexmedetomidine gtt  1.5mcg/kg/h
Propofol gtt                  20mcg/kg/min
Dilaudid gtt                  4mg/h
Vecuronium gtt9mg/h
Midazolam gtt              8mg/h
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Disposable Bronchoscope
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
COMPLICATIONS:    None
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
 images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
The tracheostomy tube is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Larynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Copious secretions noted throughout. Otherwise, normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: LUL with vascular plug in place with overlying mucus. Copious thick and thin secretions throughout. Otherwise, normal anatomic branching to segmental level.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Copious thick and thin secretions throughout.  
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and blood clots. 
Fiberoptic intubation via oral pathway was performed to introduce a 5.0 MLT ETT into the right mainstem bronchus, thus securing ventilation to the right-sided airways in case of hemoptysis. This was done due to high risk of bleeding from the LUL known aspergilloma 
Pulmonary forceps were used to grasp the vascular plug and bring it more proximally and ensure complete occlusion of the LUL. 
VIEW OF VASCULAR PLUG AFTER REVISION 

 

The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was in stable condition. 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--None
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchoscopy for evaluation of vascular plug at the LUL. Pulmonary forceps were used to grasp the plug and pull it proximally into a position allowing for complete occlusion of the LUL with less likelihood for migration.
--Initiation of awakening trials, sedation weaning
--Daily bronchoscopies for now to eval vascular plug/hemoptysis
--Gentle in-line suctioning
--Continued care per primary team
 
