NOTE_ID:  note_277 SOURCE_FILE: note_277.txt 
DATE OF PROCEDURE: 1/12/2026
 

INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED] is a 73 year old-year-old female who presents with respiratory failure.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure
 
PROCEDURE:  
43200 Esophagoscopy, flexible, transoral; diagnostic, including collection of specimen(s) by brushing or washing, when performed
43246 Esophagoscopy guided gastrostomy tube replacement
 
XS Separate Structure, a service that is distinct because it was performed on a separate organ/structure
 
Dr. Patel performed the procedure on the airway and due to respiratory failure and complex medical history two separate physicians were involved to decrease the time of the procedure.  See Dr. Patel separate note
 
 
ATTENDING:  
[REDACTED]

 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).  All procedure related images were saved and archived in Media folder on Onedrive behind UCSD firewall, relevant images are also uploaded to PACS system or in the media section of the patient's chart. 
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial  Inspection Findings:
 
The bronchoscope was introduced into the mouth and advanced into the esophagus. There were no oral lesions.  Insufflation of the esophagus was done with air. The mucosa appeared normal and the anatomy was normal. The bronchoscope was advanced through the LES into the stomach which appeared normal without mucosal changes and normal anatomy.
 
A wire was advanced through the existing gastrostomy tube into the stomach. The wire was grasped with a snare through the bronchoscopy and pulled through the mouth. The wire was attached to the new gastrostomy tube and pulled through the existing tube under direct visualization. 
 
The old gastrostomy tube was removed en bloc with no residual material left in the patient. The new tube was pulled through to the 3 cm mark at the skin. The bumper rotated freely and there was no pinching. There was small amount of granulation tissue at the puncture site and externally on the skin where the gastrostomy tube exited. 
 
The gastrostomy tube was in the fall and gauze placed
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
none
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: L[REDACTED] is a 73 year old-year-old female who gastrostomy tube exchange
[ ] gastromy tube exchange in 6 months with MAC - will place order at next trach exchange
