NOTE_ID: note_326	SOURCE_FILE: note_326.txt
INDICATION FOR OPERATION: [REDACTED] is a 60 year old-year-old male who presents with airway stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
General Anesthesia
 
ATTENDING:  
George [REDACTED] MD PhD
 
ANESTHESIA: 
Local anesthesia with: SEE MAR
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
NOTED: Pinpoint stenosis on the LMS anastomotic site. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Endobronchial obstruction at Left Mainstem was treated with the following modalities:
 

Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	knife	40W effect 2	cut	4 secs
 
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Left Mainstem.  8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 10% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 100% patent. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of LLL (LB6), Anteromedial Segment of LLL (Lb7/8), Lateral-basal Segment of LLL (LB9), and Posterior-Basal Segment of LLL (LB10).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).
 
 
The following stent (10x20 Bonastent) was placed in the Left Mainstem. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
BAL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN:[REDACTED] is a 60 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for stent placement.
 
- f/u in 4 weeks for stent evaluation


