NOTE_ID:  note_013 SOURCE_FILE: note_013.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents with respiratory failure and aspergilloma.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure; Aspergilloma
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure; Aspergilloma
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31573 Therapeutic injection(s) [eg, chemotherapy denervation agent or corticosteroid, injected percutaneous, transoral, or via endoscope channel]
 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
 
The following medications were provided:
Etomidate                    20 mg
Rocuronium                 50 mg
Dexmedetomidine gtt1 mcg/kg/hr
Propofol gtt                  40 mcg/kg/min
Fentanyl gtt                 150 mcg/hr
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   1439
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   1602
 
Total moderate sedation time was 83 minutes.  
 
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   Sedation was administered by ICU RN. 
 
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: Supine
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The tracheostomy tube is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Larynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology. Uniblocker in place (deflated) at LMSB
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Moderate bloody secretions with left greater than right
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus, blood, and blood clots. 
 
Amphotericin 50mg in 20cc sterile water was instilled into the LUL with 10cc into the apico-posterior (LB1/2) subsegment and 10cc into the anterior (LB3) subsegment
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--None
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for instillation of Amphotericin. Patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.
 
--Continued care per primary team
--Repeat instillation of Amphotericin on [REDACTED]
 