NOTE_ID:  note_087 SOURCE_FILE: note_087.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 57 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing          
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31630 Balloon dilation
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
IP [REDACTED] CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a Pt with transplant stenosis that required 4 balloon dilations and 6 applications of cryo . This resulted in >50% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy). 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
COMPLICATIONS:    None
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
PATIENT POSITION: supine
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
PATIENT POSITION: . 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appear normal. The subglottic space is normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Airway exam notable for stenosis of the RML (75% patent). Diameter was 5-6 mm
Moderate clear secretions bilaterally, white thicker mucus eminating from RML. 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, and RML Carina (RC2) from mucus and mucus plug. 
Endobronchial obstruction at RML was treated with the following modalities:
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	1.7mm probe	 	30sec freeze-thaw cycles; total 6 applications	Ablation
 
Balloon dilation was performed at RML.  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the RML.  Total 2 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 75% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 100% patent. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was successfully extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
SPECIMEN(S): 
BAL - RML
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 57 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis.
[ ] f/u results
[ ] f/u CXR
[ ] repeat bronchoscopy on [REDACTED] 