NOTE_ID:  note_054 SOURCE_FILE: note_054.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 49 year old-year-old female who presents with respiratory failure.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31502 Tracheotomy tube change prior to establishment of fistula tract
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP [REDACTED] CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required wound packing at tracheostomy stoma. This resulted in >50% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31502 Tracheotomy tube change prior to establishment of fistula tract. 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
 
The following medications were provided:
Versed             5 mg (total)
Fentanyl          150 mcg (total)
Propofol gtt60mcg/kg/min
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   1338
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   1510
 
Total moderate sedation time was 92 minutes.  
 
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   Sedation was administered by ICU RN. 
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Diagnostic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: Supine
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
The tracheostomy tube is in good position.
Pharynx: Normal.
Larynx: Normal.
Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions
Trachea: Normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.  
 
TRACHEOSTOMY TUBE FROM ABOVE
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Subglottic, Trachea (Proximal 1/3), Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Upper airway was suctioned and cleared.  Endotracheal suctioning performed.  The cuff was deflated and the tracheostomy tube was easily removed.  
 
The stoma appeared widely patent however an erosion was visualized at the 4 o'clock (inferolateral) position.
 
STOMA EROSION
 
The new tracheostomy tube was then placed with obturator in place.  The obturator was removed, inner cannula was placed and the cuff inflated.
 
Percutaneous tracheostomy was changed from:
Shiley cuffed Trach ISO/ID size 7.0mm
 
To Portex cuffed Trach ISO/ID size 7.0mm without issue.
 
During the procedure Cardiothoracic Surgery (Dr Hudson) was consulted as they had placed the original tracheostomy tube. Under their guidance and expertise, the erosion was packed with iodoform gauze.
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--RML BAL (cell count, micro, cyto)
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 49 year old-year-old female who presents for tracheostomy tube exchange and bronchoscopy. The patient underwent bronchoscopy and RML BAL. No airway bleeding, oozing, or significant secretions/mucus was appreciated. Tracheostomy tube exchange was performed with removal of of the patient's Shiley 7mm cuffed tube and placement of a Portex 7mm cuffed tube. On inspection of the patient's stoma an erosion was noted at the inferolateral aspect. Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted and they recommended packing with iodoform gauze.
 
--Portex 7mm cuffed tracheostomy tube placed
--Stoma erosion packed with iodoform gauze
--Recommend Wound Care evaluation
--Follow up RML BAL results
--Continued care per primary team
 