NOTE_ID:  note_007 SOURCE_FILE: note_007.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 68 year old-year-old male who presents with persistent airleak.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J93.82 Other airleaks
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J93.82 Other airleaks
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31634 Balloon occlusion or placement of occlusive substance 
31635 Foreign body removal
31647 Bronchial valve insert initial lobe 
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)  31624 BAL done in multiple lobes. 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Flexible Hybrid (Pedatric) Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus and mucus plug. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4) and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral-basal Segment of RLL (RB9).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Serial occlusion with endobronchial blocker (ardnts 7Fr) and Fogarty balloon was done to isolate the airleak to be at the RLL (Lateral and Posterior subsegment).  Airleak was reproduced with inspiratory hold at 30 and suction on pleurovac on -20cmH20. 
 
Tisseel 2cc was used to block off a subsegment of the RLL posterior branch.  
 
Size 7 spiration valve was placed but noted to be too large for the airway (RB10).  This was subsequently removed. 
 
Then Size 6 spiration valve was placed in RB9, in good position. 
Then size 6 spiration valve was placed in RB10, noted to be in poor position, this was removed again and replaced with another size 6 spiration valve in a better angle. 
 
Final: 
RB9 - size 6 spiration valve
RB10- size 6 spiration valve
 
With airleak significantly decreased.  
 
See Dr. Thistlethwaite's note for VATS and pleurodesis. 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
BAL (x2) 
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 68 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for BAL and valve placement. 
- f/u in BAL results
- f/u in 6 weeks for valve removal 