NOTE_ID:  note_018 SOURCE_FILE: note_018.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 60 year old-year-old female who presents with airway stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31631 Dilate and tracheal stent placement   
31640 Bronchoscopy with excision 
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Flexible Hybrid (Pedatric) Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Significant narrowing at the cord level, therapeutic scope was not able to be passed. 
 
Surgical Planning Measurements:
 	 
Distance from vocal folds to stenosis	 0 mm
Location of stenosis relative to cricoid 	At cricoid
Distance from top of stenosis to bottom 	105 mm
Distance of bottom of stenosis to carina	90 mm
Approximation of most narrow portion	6 mm
 
Endobronchial obstruction at Subglottic was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	Knife (needle)	Endo cut I 2 2 1	4secs burst	Radial cut
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	 	 	 	 
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 50% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 50% patent. 
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Trachea (Proximal 1/3).  8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the Trachea (Proximal 1/3).  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
Endobronchial excision of tissue was performed at Trachea (Proximal 1/3).  Lesion was successfully removed.  Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) and Cytology.  Sheet of tissue completed peeled off with forceps in a circular fashion.
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 20 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Proximal 1/3), Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus and blood. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
EBBX , BAL
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 60 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for subglottic stenosis.
- repeat bronchoscopy in 4-6 weeks 
- f/u in clinic