NOTE_ID:  note_107 SOURCE_FILE: note_107.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 56 year old-year-old male who presents with post-transplant evaluation.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure
PROCEDURE:  
31615 Visualization of windpipe (Tracheobronchoscopy through established tracheostomy incision)
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
COMPLICATIONS:    None
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
Tracheobronchoscopy was performed with insertion of bronchoscope through the tracheostomy to perform airway clearance and confirm tracheostomy position. 
The tracheostomy tube is in good position. The visualized portion of the trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Inspection shows a BMS that is patent in the RMSB, covering the RUL but with good aeration and mucus drainage through the stent. Dehiscence at the RMSB remains entirely closed by stent. Areas of granulation tissue/ischemic mucosa remain at the distal BI/RML orifice as well as LMSB anastomosis and LUL. There are two areas of very thin mucosa/airway wall in the LUL and Lingula.  Moderate thick secretions. 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, and Carina from mucus. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
SPECIMEN(S): 
none
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 56 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for airway evaluation.
- f/u with repeat bronch every other day
- plan for possible stent exchange