NOTE_ID:  note_157 SOURCE_FILE: note_157.txt Indications: Left lower lobe nodule
Medications: General Anesthesia,
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. 
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the 7.5 ETT. The airways were friable and significant blood was present from difficult intubation.  The trachea was of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. On the right the patient had an anatomic variant with an accessory airway just distal to the superior segment of the right lower lobe. The left sided airway anatomy was normal. No evidence of endobronchial disease was seen to at least the first sub-segments.  Following inspection the super-dimension navigational catheter was inserted through the therapeutic bronchoscope and advanced into the airway. Using navigational map we were able to advance the 180 degree edge catheter into the anterior-medial segment on the left lower lobe and navigated to within 1cm of the lesion. The navigational probe was then removed and peripheral radial probe was inserted into the catheter to confirm location. Ultrasound visualization yielded a concentric view affirming the location.  Needle biopsies were performed with fluoroscopic guidance. ROSE was non-diagnostic. The catheter was repositioned to sample other areas of the lesion and radial probe continued to show a concentric view of the tumor. ROSE again was read as non-diagnostic. Tissue biopsies were then performed using forceps under fluoroscopic visualization along with brush and triple needle brush biopsies. After samples were obtained the bronchoscope was removed and the diagnostic bronchoscope was re-inserted into the airway. Subsequent inspection did not show evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was removed from the airway. 
Following completion of the procedure the patient was noted to lack audible airleak when the ETT balloon was deflated. Given the difficult intubation, anesthesia decided to leave patient intubated and transfer to the ICU to monitor and extubate when deemed appropriate. 
Complications: None
Estimated Blood Loss: Less than 10 cc.
Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Flexible bronchoscopy with successful biopsy of left lower lobe pulmonary nodule
- Will transfer to the ICU and attempt extubation later today. 
- Await final pathology  

