NOTE_ID:  note_014 SOURCE_FILE: note_014.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents with hemoptysis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Hemoptysis, airway obstruction, aspergilloma
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Hemoptysis, airway obstruction, aspergilloma
 
PROCEDURE:  
31646 Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes
31573 Therapeutic injection(s) [eg, chemotherapy denervation agent or corticosteroid, injected percutaneous, transoral, or via endoscope channel]
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
31899NFD BRONCHOSCOPY W/ APPLICATION OF TRANEXAMIC ACID
31634 Balloon occlusion or placement of occlusive substance 
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP [REDACTED] CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required cryotherapy for removal of organized clot throughout the left-sided airways. This resulted in >100% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy). 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
 
The following medications were provided:
Versed gtt                    2 mg/hr
Versed boluses            10 mg total
Fentanyl gtt                 150 mcg/hr
Fentanyl boluses         125 mcg total
Propofol                       60 mg/kg/min
Dexmedatomidine       1 mcg/kg/hr
Cisatracurium              7 mg/hr
 
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   1156
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   1400
 
Total moderate sedation time was 124 minutes.  
 
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   Sedation was administered by ICU RN. 
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: Supine
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
The tracheostomy tube is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Larynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Endobronchial balloon at ligula, LUL and LB6 with organized clot obscuring evaluation of distal airways. Otherwise, normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.  
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus, blood, and blood clots. 
 
Endobronchial clot at LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1) and Left Carina (LC2) and LB6 was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Cryoprobe	1.1mm Cryoprobe	N/A	5-10 second freezes	Excellent clot removal
 
After organized clot was removed from the LUL, Amphotericin 10mg in 10cc sterile water was instilled into the LUL proper. The bronchoscope was wedged into the LUL to prevent backflow for 5 minutes.
 
TXA 400mg was applied directly into the LUL through the bronchoscope and balloon occlusion was performed at the Left Carina (LC2) with 5 Fr Uniblocker and secured in place with the Uniblocker ventilator adaptor.
            -Placed at 27.5cm at dark blue securement device
            -Confirmed that 2.5cc of air was required to inflate the balloon to fully occlude the 
LUL
The endobronchial blocker balloon was left inflated in the LUL.
 
CLOT REMOVED FROM LUL
 
 
UNIBLOCKER IN PLACE AT LUL AT CONCLUSION OF PROCEDURE
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--None
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for evaluation of hemoptysis and instillation of antifungal medication (Amphotericin). A combination of cold saline and cryotherapy (cryoprobe) were used to evacuate the LUL and LB6 airways of organized clot. Amphotericin was instilled into the LUL and a 5 Fr Uniblocker was placed and left inflated at the LUL. The patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.
 
--Post procedure CXR
--Uniblocker placed at LUL orifice, inflated fully with 2.5cc of air, blocker distance at 27.5cm
--Please leave blocker in place for 2 hours post procedure (deflate at 1400 on [REDACTED])
--Plan for repeat bronchoscopy and likely repeat instillation of Amphotericin on [REDACTED]