NOTE_ID:  note_009 SOURCE_FILE: note_009.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 29 year old-year-old male who presents with airway stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s)
31640 Bronchoscopy with excision 
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
31635 Foreign body removal
 
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
 
IP [REDACTED] CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a significant airway management and endobronchial hair removal. This resulted in >40% increased work due to Increased intensity, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s)
31640 Bronchoscopy with excision . 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Airway noted to be stable with significant airway pressure.  Stent was noted to be migrated distally. 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Proximal 1/3), Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , and Left Mainstem from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).  Instilled 20 cc of NS, suction returned with 10 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count and Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).
 
Foreign body (stent) was noted in the distal trachea.  BonaStent (14x60) was removed with forceps. 
 
Significant amount of hair was noted and was causing endobronchial obstruction at the level of graft leading to mucus trapping.  These were mechanically removed with forceps (excision of lesion due to obstruction).
 
There were significant granulation tissue that was noted and APC was used to ablate the granulation issue to reduce obstruction. Endobronchial obstruction at Subglottic was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	 	 	 	 
APC	1.5mm 	Pulse 20 effect 2, flow 0.3	2-3 sec 	ablated
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	 	 	 	 
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 60% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 90% patent. 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
Bonastent 14x60
BAL RML
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 29 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for airway stenosis.
- critical airway watch for overnight 
- consider CPAP overnight if get into respiratory failure
- f/u in am with CXR