NOTE_ID:  note_022 SOURCE_FILE: note_022.txt PROCEDURE: Flexible bronchoscopy with BAL and TBBX under moderate sedation with fluoroscopic guidance 
INDICATION : Lung Transplant
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient. The patient read and signed the provided consent form. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical proffesional.
 
MONITORING : Continuous telemetry, BP and oxygen saturation monitored
INSTRUMENT : Olympus Video Bronchoscope
ANESTHESIA : Moderate IV sedation with: fentanyl 50 mcg and Versed 2.5 mg;  Local anesthesia with: Lidocaine 2% Solution ~20mL intratracheal. Fluoro time 28s
Sedation time was 24 min during this procedure
 
Time out: Immediately prior to procedure a "time out" was called to verify the correct patient, procedure, equipment, support staff and site/side  marked as required.  
 
SUMMARY : Initially a time-out was performed prior to the procedure, confirming the patient's name, procedure type and procedure location. After the patient was properly positioned and sedated and topical anesthesia applied, the bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth with O2 being administered at all times. This was done without difficulty. The bronchoscope was passed by the carina, which was examined for sharpness, position and texture. The bronchial orifices were systematically identified, evaluated and suctioned free of secretions and close attention was paid to color, texture, positions, size and patency. Mild distortion of airways noted bilaterally. 
 
FINDINGS
Pharynx: Normal 
Larynx: Normal 
Vocal Chords: Normal 
Trachea: Normal 
Carina: Sharp
 
Bronchial Tree
Right Lung: Normal anastomosis, no strictures, ischemia or black eschar
 
Left Lung: Normal anastomosis, no strictures, ischemia or black eschar
 
No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other intra-bronchial pathology.
Mucosa: normal
Secretions: none. Suctioned to clear (therapeutic aspiration). 
 
Studies/samples: 
1. BAL 1: 60 cc instilled in the RML and 20 cc returned
1. BAL 1: 60 cc instilled in the LLL and 20 cc returned
2. Biopsies: 10 TBBX attempted and 10 samples obtained from the RLL, lateral basal segment 
- EBL: 5ml
Complications: None
 
 
IMPRESSION: 
Flexible bronchoscopy with BAL and TBBX under moderate sedation
 
Post procedure, no dyspnea, chest pain or changes to his voice
Exam: CTA over the area of the lavage and biopsy, no voice change or crepitus noted
Samples sent for microbiology and pathology