NOTE_ID:  note_083 SOURCE_FILE: note_083.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 68 year old-year-old female who presents with bronchial stenosis.  
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s)
31654 Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
31635 Foreign body removal
22 Substantially greater work than normal (i.e., increased intensity, time, technical difficulty of procedure, and severity of patient's condition, physical and mental effort required)
IP [REDACTED] CODE MOD DETAILS: 
Unusual Procedure:
This patient required a extensive mechanical excision of endobronchial tissue to salvage the airway as well as two separate stent placement given abarrent anatomy. This resulted in >80% increased work due to Technical difficulty of procedure and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy). Pt with complex airway with significant stenosis of the LMSB and complete occlusion of the LLL bronchus that required multiple attempts and 
 ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
COMPLICATIONS:    None
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
PATIENT POSITION: 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
An iGel was placed by anesthesia after adequate sedation.
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Left Mainstem, Carina, LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and mucus plug. The stent was partially occluded with thick yellow,green mucus
The LUL bronchus was approximately 3-4 mm and the LLL bronchus could not be visualized. Saline was instilled without visualization of the LLL.  
Endobronchial tumor was noted and required extensive excision and mechanical debridement.  (Alligator forceps) and 1.7 cryoprobe with 30 second freeze cycles to vascular occlusion and then cryotherapy for further debulking of the LUL ostium.
It appeared that the LMSB stent migrated distally and appeared to be covering the LMSB
Using forceps the proximal end of the microtech stent was grasped and then removed on en bloc with the bronchoscope. The foreign body removal was difficult due to significant inflammation.
After removal the LMSB mucosa was ragged, irregular and there was dynamic collapse. The LLL bronchus could not be visualized and the LC2 was difficult to delineate along the inferior portion. The area of firm and unable to use multiple aliquots the LLL airway could not be identified. 
Due to complex anatomy a jag wire was placed in the Lingula and the radial EBUS was utilized to identify vasculature and airways but the LLL was still unable to be identified.
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
SPECIMEN(S): 
- LUL BAL - cell count, culture and cytology
- LMSB EBBx - pathology 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 68 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis. Very odd presentation of cicatrization and benign stenosis of the LMSB without evidence of residual malignancy. Very challenging anatomy of the airway and stenosis. Continues to have robust inflammatory response and no additional stents were placed. 
- admit overnight
- start abx to treat MSSA, add prednisone 20 mg and obtain CT chest with contrast
- NPO after midnight for bronchoscopy [REDACTED]
 