NOTE_ID:  note_195 SOURCE_FILE: note_195.txt Procedure Name: Pleuroscopy
Indications: Pleural effusion
Medications: Fentanyl 3, versed 75, Lidocaine 30cc 1%
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. The patient was placed on the standard procedural bed in the L lateral decubitus position and sites of compression were well padded. The pleural entry site was identified by means of the ultrasound. The patient was sterilely prepped with chlorhexidine gluconate (Chloraprep) and draped in the usual fashion. The entry sites was infiltrated with a 10mL solution of 1% lidocaine. Following instillation of subcutaneous lidocaine a 1 cm subcutaneous incision was made and gentle dissection was performed until the pleural space was entered.  An 8 mm disposable primary port was then placed on the left side at the 6th anterior axillary line. After allowing air entrainment and lung deflation, suction was applied through the port to remove pleural fluid with removal of approximately 700cc of serosanguinous fluid. The rigid pleuroscopy telescope was then introduced through the trocar and advanced into the pleural space. There was diffuse pleural studding observed. The pleura was gernerally unremarkable with the execution of a few white and yellow plaques as well as some mild tethering of the right upper lobe to the chest wall. Biopsies of the abnormal areas in the parietal pleura posteriorly were performed with forceps and sent for histopathology examination with approximately 5 total biopsies taken. There was brisk but transient bleeding after the initial biopsy ans subsequently protamine was given to completely reverse patients heparin (which was held for the procedure). The pleuroscopy telescope was then removed and a 15.5 pleural catheter was placed into the pleural space through the primary port with tunneling anteriorly. 

PleurX Catheter Placement:

A guide wire was inserted into the site of pleuroscopy entry and the port was removed. A separate skin site was identified ~5cm inferior to the guidewire insertion site and lidocaine was injected for local analgesia and a <1cm incision was then performed. A subcutaneous tract was then established to the guidewire insertion site with the provided blunt tunneler.  The Pleurx catheter was attached to the tunneler and pulled through the subcutaneous tract, followed by dilatation of the pleural access tract with the 16 fr peel away sheath via seldinger technique. The Pleurx catheter was then inserted through the 16 fr. peel away sheath. Both incisions were closed with subcuticular 0 silk suture. The area was then dressed. The catheter was subsequently connected to the drainage wall suction and <100cc of serosanguinous fluid was drained.  The catheter tip was then capped and the pleurx was dressed and covered with a transulent dressing. 

The patient tolerated the procedural well.
Post-procedure chest radiograph showed minimal residual pleural air with
pleural catheter in place tracking upwards.  
Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: 20cc
Post Procedure Diagnosis: Pleural effusion 
Recommendation:
Will await pathology and microbiological studies
Patient education on pleural catheter draining and will return tomorrow for initial drainage.
Hold heparin drip until 6 hours post-procedure (19:00 tonight)
