NOTE_ID:  note_064 SOURCE_FILE: note_064.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 68 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s)
31630 Balloon dilation
31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
 
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Initial Airway Examination Findings:
 
The laryngeal mask airway is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.
Larynx: Not fully assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.
Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions
Trachea: Normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology. Anastomosis site noted, normal.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: LMSB noted to have stenosis (both static at the anastomosis and dynamic at the proximal LMSB). Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Some cobblestoning at main carina and proximal LMSB, otherwise normal
Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.  
 
LMSB Stenosis:
 
 
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4) and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5).  Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count and Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).
 
Endobronchial biopsy of cobblestoned mucosa was performed at Left Mainstem and Carina using 2.0mm pulmonary forceps.  Samples sent for Pathology.
 
Endobronchial obstruction at LMSB anastomosis stenosis was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	Needle Knife	EndoCut, Effect 3	 	Radial cuts 
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	 	 	 	 
 
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 75% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 100% patent. 
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Left Mainstem.  8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 1 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
 
The following stent (MicroTech 10 x 40mm) was placed in the Left Mainstem. 
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Left Mainstem.  8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the Left Mainstem to fully extend and seat the stent.  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 30 seconds each.
 
Balloon dilation was performed at Left Mainstem.  10/11/12 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 12 mm at the Left Mainstem.  Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 30 seconds each.
 
View of LMSB stent at the conclusion of the procedure:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--LMSB endobronchial forceps biopsies
--Lingula BAL (cell count, micro)
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 68 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for evaluation of bronchial stenosis. MicroTech 10 x 40 mm stent was successfully deployed to the LMSB. Patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.
 
--Stent Hydration Regimen TID in the following order: 
1) Albuterol nebs
2) Hypertonic saline (3%) nebs
3) Flutter valve
--Guaifenesin 1200mg PO BID
--Follow-up endobronchial biopsy and BAL results
--Outpatient follow-up in IP clinic as scheduled on [REDACTED]
--Repeat bronchoscopy for stent check in 2-3 weeks