NOTE_ID:  note_256 SOURCE_FILE: note_256.txt PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Bronchial stenosis
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Radiation induced bronchial stenosis
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Flexible bronchoscopy balloon dilatation 
INDICATIONS: left sided lung collapse and possible bronchial obstruction. 
Consent was obtained from the patient prior to procedure after explanation in lay terms the indications, details of procedure, and potential risks and alternatives. The patient acknowledged and gave consent. 
Sedation: General Anesthesia
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The procedure was performed in the operating room. An I-gel LMA was placed and the diagnostic flexible bronchoscope was inserted through the airway device. The vocal cords were visualized and normal.  The subglottic space was normal. The trachea was normal appearing with minimal mild thick secretions. The bronchoscope was then advanced to the main carina, which was sharp. The bronchoscope was then advanced into the right mainstem. Each segment and subsegment within the right upper, right middle, right lower lobe was well visualized. The right sided airway anatomy was normal and no specific masses or other lesions were identified throughout the tracheobronchial tree on the right. The bronchoscope was then withdrawn into the trachea and then advanced into the left main stem. In the distal mainstem there was circumferential erythema of the airway wall without stenosis. There was purulent secretions in the left upper and lower lobe. Bronchial wash was performed in the left upper lobe for culture.  The left upper lobe airways were not stenotic but had chronic erythematous appearance consistent with radiation changes. The left lower lobe take-off was not stenotic but there was moderate stenosis of the lateral basilar segment of the lower lobe and severe stenosis (90%) of the anterior medial segment. No specific masses or other lesions were identified throughout the tracheobronchial tree on the left. Following inspection we removed the diagnostic bronchoscope and introduced the T180 therapeutic bronchoscope. Our attention to the stenosis within the lateral basilar segment of the left lower lobe and gentle dilatation was performed with the 6mm Elation dilating balloon with mild improvement in stenosis. The airway wall was friable however and oozed easily. We then attempted to gently dilate the anterior-medial segment by bypassing the obstruction and gently inflating the balloon to partial expansion (<6mm) and pull back through the stenosis. When this was done relatively brisk bleeding developed. We then wedged the bronchoscope in the left lower lobe for 2 minutes and reassessed. At that point the bleeding had stopped and we felt that given the distal airway disease (likely radiation induced) and only segmental obstruction, the risk/benefit ratio of continued attempts at dilatation favored abstaining from further intervention. At this point, one we were satisfied that there was no active bleeding the bronchoscope was removed and the procedure completed.  
Recommendations:
- Patient to PACU for recovery
- Await culture results
- Follow-up with primary pulmonologist