NOTE_ID:  note_232 SOURCE_FILE: note_232.txt PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer with tumor obstruction of bronchus intermedius
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Malignant mixed intrinsic and extrinsic airway obstruction
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Rigid bronchoscopy
INDICATIONS: Tumor obstruction of bronchus intermedius  
Consent was obtained from the patient prior to procedure after explanation in lay terms the indications, details of procedure, and potential risks and alternatives. The patient acknowledged and gave consent. 
Sedation: General Anesthesia
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The procedure was performed in the main operating room. Following induction and paralyitic administration by anesthesia a 12 mm ventilating rigid bronchoscope was inserted into the mid trachea and attached to the jet ventilator. The rigid optic was then removed and the flexible bronchoscope was inserted through the rigid bronchoscope. On initial bronchoscopic inspection the trachea, left lung and right upper lobe appeared normal without evidence of endobronchial disease. Just distal to the right upper lobe orifice in the bronchus intermedius there was extensive endobronchial tumor causing complete airway obstruction.  At this point the flexible forceps were used to take tissue samples for pathological evaluation and tumor markers.  We then began to slowly debulk the endobronchial tumor through the use of a combination of APC, cryotherapy and forceps. A small opening was identified leading to the right lower lobe bronchus and an ultrathin bronchospe was advanced through the opening and purulent material was expressed from the distal airways from related to post-obstructive pneumonia. We were able to visualize the secondary carina’s within the right lower lobe (basilar segments) with the exception of the superior segment which could not be identified as well and the right middle lobe. We continued to debulk the tumor and utilizing an 8-9-10 CRE balloon were able to achieve approximately 90% recanalization of the broncus intermedius and the proximal right lower lobe orifice however there was extensive tumor infiltration deep into all of the right lower lobe segments. The right middle lobe orifice was encased with extensive tumor and we could only achieve about 15% recanalization. Infiltrating friable areas of tumor were painted with argon plasma coagulation for hemostasis. Due to the extent of tumor within the distal airways we did not believe that airway stent placement would be appropriate as distal tumor ingrowth would likely occur.  Once we were satisfied that there was no active bleeding the rigid bronchoscope was removed and the procedure was completed. 
Recommendations:
Await tissue diagnosis for confirmation of recurrence and molecular studies.
We expect the obstruction to recur due to the extent of tumor involvement. Will discuss with patients primary oncologist regarding options for systemic therapy. 
