NOTE_ID:  note_205 SOURCE_FILE: note_205.txt Indications: Diagnosis and staging of presumed lung cancer
Medications: General Anesthesia,
Consent was obtained from the patient prior to procedure after explanation in lay terms the indications, details of procedure, and potential risks and alternatives. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention.

Following intravenous medications and intubation by anesthesia, the T190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the ETT and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The trachea was of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. At the carina for the superior segment of the left lower lobe was a mucosal irregularity concerning for endobronchial tumor. Otherwise bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal without other endobronchial lesions. Enbobronchial forcep biopsies were performed of the superior segment lesion with minimal bleeding. The Covidien superDimension locatable guide was then inserted through the working channel and registration was performed. The Edge 180 degree extended working channel was then attached to the bronchoscope.  Using navigational map we attempted to advance into the proximity of the lesion within the left lower lobe lesion. Confirmation of placement once at the point of interest with radial ultrasound showed a concentric view within the lesion. Biopsies were then performed with peripheral needle with on ROSE were non-diagnostic. Due to intermittent hypoxia and rising peak pressures decision was made to abort peripheral biopsies and BAL of the anterior segment of the left lower lobe was performed with 90cc instillation and 25cc return.  Repeat fluoroscopic imaging showed large left sided pneumothorax. 
The left axillary area was the prepped in a sterile fashion. A Yueh centesis needle was advanced into the pleural space. Air was easily aspirated and the catheter was advanced into the space and needle withdrawn. A guidewire was inserted through the catheter. A small skin incision was made at the wire site and a two-step dilatation of pleural tract was then performed via Seldinger technique. The Cooke 12F pigtail catheter was then inserted with its trocar in place over the wire. The trocar was subsequently removed with the wire. The catheter was subsequently connected to the pleurovac and the catheter sutured into place. Repeat fluoroscopic imaging showed pig tail in place and complete lung re-expansion. The patient was subsequently intubated and admitted to the IM service for chest tube management. 

Recommendations:
1.	Admit to IM service for CT management
2.	Await pathology and microbiological assessment from biopsy specimens and lavage
3.	We will follow on the inpatinet service and provide further recs regarding CT management. 