NOTE_ID:  note_003 SOURCE_FILE: note_003.txt 
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 23 year old-year-old female who presents with synovial cell sarcoma.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
PROCEDURE:  
31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing          
 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   None
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
 
The following medications were provided:
Versed             2 mg
Fentanyl          75 mcg
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   0959
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   1008
 
Total moderate sedation time was 9 minutes.  
 
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   
 
The airway was inspected and mucus was suctioned. Lidocaine was applied to the vocal cords and airway.
 
The mouth and oropharynx were normal appearing. 
 
The airway anatomy was normal appearing to the segmental level bilaterally.
 
The previous biopsy site was inspected appeared to have healed well.
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
None
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 23 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for airway inspection.
 
-Follow up as needed
 