NOTE_ID:  note_226 SOURCE_FILE: note_226.txt PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: left mainstem stent obstruction
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: 
Distal granulation tissue causing left lower lobe obstruction
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: flexible bronchoscopy with  cryodebulking/cryotherapy of obstructive granulation tissue, balloon dilatation od airways and endobronchial submucosal steroid injection.
INDICATIONS: complete lobar collapse  
Consent was obtained from the patient prior to procedure after explanation in lay terms the indications, details of procedure, and potential risks and alternatives. 
Sedation: General Anesthesia
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the T190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The trachea and right sided airways were normal. The left mainstem stent was widely patent without evidence of obstruction.  At the takeoff of the left lower lobe just beyond surgical stump there was complete obstruction of the left lower lobe orifice secondary to adherent necrotic tissue.  Using the 1.9 mm cryoprobe we are able to extract some of the tissue to visualize the segmental stenosis in the left lower lobe.  We then utilized flexible forceps to slowly debulk the abnormal tissue. Once we were able to pass the left lower lobe orifice there was continued areas of white necrotic tissue obstruction the superior segment and anteriomedial segments of the left lower lobe and extending to just proximal to the basilar segments. This tissue was also slowly debulked with the flexible forceps until we were able to achieve relatively preserved luminal diameter. We then utilized the -9-10 CRE balloon to dilate the left lower lobe orifice and the obstructed sub-segments.  Finally using the Olympus 21-gauge needle we injected a total of 80 mg of Kenalog  solution into the submucosa have areas of significant disease  in hopes of inducing an anti-inflammatory effect to prevent regrowth of inflammatory tissue. Once we were satisfied that no further intervention was required the flexible bronchoscope was removed and the case was turned over to anesthesia to recover the patient. 
Recommendations:
-	Transfer patient back to ward
-	Will follow-up with pulmonary for further management on an outpatient basis.  