NOTE_ID:  note_185 SOURCE_FILE: note_185.txt Procedure Name: EBUS Bronchoscopy
Indications: staging of bilateral lung cancer (metastatic vs synchronous primary)
Medications: General Anesthesia
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention.
 Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway was in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea was of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first sub-segmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and no secretions. The video bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. A systematic hilar and mediastinal lymph node survey was carried out. Sampling criteria (5mm short axis diameter) were met in station 4LR,7, and 4R lymph nodes.  Sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed beginning with the 4L Lymph node followed by 7, and 4R lymph nodes using an Olympus EBUSTBNA 22 gauge needle. The 4L lymph node was extremely difficult to access due to angle of left mainstem and after one biopsy no further attempts performed. Further details regarding nodal size and number of samples are included in the EBUS procedural sheet which is available in EMR. ROSE showed non-diagnostic tissue in the 4L and 4R lymph nodes and benign lymphocytes in the station 7 lymph node. All samples were sent for routine cytology. The Q190 video bronchoscope was then re-inserted and after suctioning blood and secretions there was no evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was subsequently removed.

Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: 5 cc.

Post Procedure Recommendations:
- Transfer to PACU and home per protocol
- Will await final pathology results
