NOTE_ID:  note_115 SOURCE_FILE: note_115.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 77 year old-year-old female who presents with respiratory failure.  
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31640 Bronchoscopy with excision 
31615 Visualization of windpipe (Tracheobronchoscopy through established tracheostomy incision)
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
COMPLICATIONS:    None
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
PATIENT POSITION: . 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
The airway was inspected via the tracheostomy tube and above. Excessive dynamic airway collapse was again noted. Secretions were noted and cleared. 
Tracheobronchoscopy was performed with insertion of bronchoscope through the tracheostomy to perform airway clearance and confirm tracheostomy position. 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Vocal Cord, Subglottic, Trachea (Proximal 1/3), Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
The vocal cords were normal appearing. Lidocaine was applied to the vocal cords and the airway. Anatomy was normal to the segmental level bilaterally with the exception of the posterior membrane. 
Granulation tissue was noted just above the tracheostomy tube. 
This granulation tissue was excised with pulmonary forceps and large forceps. 
Some bleeding was noted, this was controlled with suctioning and saline irrigation.
Upper airway was suctioned and cleared.  Endotracheal suctioning performed.  The cuff was deflated and the tracheostomy tube was easily removed.  The stoma appeared widely patent and no granulation tissue was immediately visualized.  The new tracheostomy tube was then placed with obturator in place.  The obturator was removed, inner cannula was placed and the cuff inflated.
Percutaneous tracheostomy was changed from:
Shiley distal XLT uncuffed Trach ISO/ID size 6.0mm
To 
Shiley distal XLT uncuffed Trach ISO/ID size 6.0mm without issue.
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
SPECIMEN(S): 
Trachea tissue excision
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 77 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for respiratory failure.
-Follow up bronchoscopic lab work
-Follow up tracheostomy tube change in ~3 months