NOTE_ID:  note_012 SOURCE_FILE: note_012.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents with aspergilloma and hemoptysis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31573 Therapeutic injection(s) [eg, chemotherapy denervation agent or corticosteroid, injected percutaneous, transoral, or via endoscope channel]
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
31899NFD BRONCHOSCOPY W/ APPLICATION OF TRANEXAMIC ACID
 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
 
The following medications were provided:
Etomidate                    20 mg
Rocuronium                 26 mg
Propofol gtt                  40 mcg/kg/min
Fentanyl gtt                 150 mcg/hr
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   1500
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   1550
 
Total moderate sedation time was 50 minutes.  
 
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   Sedation was administered by ICU RN. 
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Disposable Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: . 
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
 
The tracheostomy tube is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Larynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.
Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology. Uniblocker in place (deflated) at LMSB
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Mild bloody secretions with left greater than right
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus, blood, and blood clots. 
 
Amphotericin 50mg in 20cc sterile water was instilled into the LUL with 10cc into the apico-posterior (LB1/2) subsegment and 10cc into the anterior (LB3) subsegment

Post-instillation, patient had mild ooze of fresh blood. TXA total 1000mg was applied directly into the LUL through the bronchoscope.  Formalized clot was then extracted with cryoprobe to relieve airway obstruction. 

Endobronchial clot at LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1) and Left Carina (LC2) was treated with the following modalities:
 
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Cryoprobe	1.1mm Cryoprobe	N/A	5-10 second freezes	Excellent clot removal
 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  
SPECIMEN(S): 
none
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 33 year old-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for for instillation of Amphotericin. Patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.
 
--Continued care per primary team
--May consider repeat instillation of Amphotericin on 1/5/2026 and possible clot extraction
 