NOTE_ID:  note_053 SOURCE_FILE: note_053.txt Pre-Op Diagnosis: Respiratory failure, on VV ECMO, CTEPH, acute PE, RV failure, reintubation
 
Post-Op Diagnosis: Same
 
Procedure: Tracheostomy, modified open/percutaneous

Brief Clinical Note: 
49F w/polycythemia vera with JAK2 mutation and prior thrombogenic events p/w SOB/CP found to have group 4 CTEPH w/ massive PEs w/RV strain/thrombus 12/1 (Loma Linda) s/p failed/incomplete IR thrombectomy c/b Lt CVA s/p neuroIR thrombectomy 12/3 further c/b CV decompensation s/p Lt fem VA ECMO w/DPC 12/4, failed wean 12/10 so converted to VV ECMO. Extubated 12/11. S/p oxygenator exchange 12/12. Re-intubated 12/14 2/2 secretions. 12/15 bronch, AF RVR. New LLE DVT on bival 12/16 though was ECMO cannula there.  From her Lt MCA CVA has Rt hemiplegia 
 
In need of tracheostomy to assist with ventilator weaning, secretion management, and ongoing potential rehabilitation. Primary team, ICU team, and family in agreement. Ventilator settings, labs, and body habitus adequate for bedside procedure. Has slightly high riding innominate artery (though not classic) as well as a large bridging neck vein. VV ECMO/DVT/PE anticoagulation held and will restart shortly thereafter. Consent signed.
 
Details of Procedure Performed:  
 
The patient remained in the ICU with a previously placed single-lumen endotracheal tube. The patient was positioned supine with a padded shoulder roll in place, the head of bed elevated, and the neck moderately extended. A surgical brief was performed and the level of inspired fraction of oxygen was reduced to 40%. Patient remained on VV ECMO support. After adequate anesthesia, landmarks were palpated including the thyroid notch, cricoid, and suprasternal notch. Neck ultrasound was performed to confirm vascular anatomy. Exposure was excellent. The anterior neck was prepped and draped in the standard fashion. 
 
A surgical time out was performed. 5mL of 1% lidocaine was injected 2-3 cm above the sternal notch. It was made higher due to the known partially high-riding innominate. A 3cm horizontal skin incision was made with a #15 blade knife in a natural, relaxed skin tension line midway between the cricoid cartilage and the sternal notch. Bovie cautery was used to dissect through the platysma and down to the strap muscles, with effort made to avoid the anterior jugular veins. There were two vertical engorged veins along the midline raphe with a bridging vein between then. The bridging vein was dissected, suture ligated, and divided. This allowed visualization of the midline raphe. The strap muscles were separated vertically at the midline with Bovie cautery. The strap muscles are retracted laterally. Using a combination of blunt and careful cautery midline dissection, the anterior tracheal wall was freed of soft tissue. The innominate artery was identified and protected. There was good soft tissue between the innominate and the trachea which was not disturbed.  The trachea was palpated to find the 2nd and 3rd tracheal rings. There was adequate distance between the innominate artery and the planned insertion site. 
 
Under bronchoscopic guidance, the endotracheal tube cuff was deflated and was pulled back below the level of the vocal cords. A finder needle was placed through the anterior trachea between the 2nd and 3rd cartilaginous rings.  Once confirmed by bronchoscopy, a seldinger technique was used to serially dilate the tracheotomy over a wire and to place a # 7 cuffed shiley tracheostomy. The tracheostomy cuff was inflated. Cross table ventilation was performed and the tracheostomy placement was confirmed by bronchoscopy through the tracheostomy as well as CO2 return on the anesthesia monitor. The tracheostomy inner cannula was then placed. Surgicel was placed in the wound bed though hemostasis was great but plan to resume anticoagulation very shortly. The tracheostomy was secured with loose 2-0 prolene sutures to the skin and tracheostomy straps to maintain airway but prevent skin pressure injuries. The endotracheal tube was then withdrawn completely. The tracheostomy obturator was provided to the bedside care team. The patient remained in the ICU in critical condition. There were no complications.
 
At the end of the procedure, I contacted her husband Carl Pinell at 626-991-6311 
 
EBL: 1ml
 
Fluids: per anesthesia record
 
Specimens: none
 
Implants: none
 
Drains: none
 
Complications: none immediately apparent
 
Disposition: stable, ventilated, remained in ICU, on VV ECMO
 
Plan: 
Okay to resume bival in 1 hour
Trach ties to stay for 7-10 days
No need for routine trach exchange within first 14 day if not having issues
Do not over inflate the cuff 
 