NOTE_ID:  note_203 SOURCE_FILE: note_203.txt PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: 
1.	Left mainstem complex stenosis
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: 
1.	Left mainstem complex stenosis
INDICATIONS:  Left mainstem obstruction
Consent was obtained from the patient prior to procedure after explanation in lay terms the indications, details of procedure, and potential risks and alternatives. The patient acknowledged and gave consent. 
Sedation: General Anesthesia
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The procedure was performed in the main operating room. Following intravenous medications as per the record a 12 mm ventilating rigid bronchoscope was inserted through the mouth and advanced into the distal trachea before attaching the monsoon JET ventilator. The T190 therapeutic video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via the rigid bronchoscope and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The tracheal carina was sharp. All right sided airways were inspected to at least the first subsegmental bronchi.  The left-sided airways were than inspected. The proximal and mid left mainstem was normal. In the distal aspect of the left mainstem there was an asymmetrical complex-appearing stricture with approximately 80% obstruction.  We were able to push the theraputic bronchoscope through the stenosis. In t he lower lobe there were puruilent post-obstructive secretions which were aspirated via the bronchoscope, otherwise the distal airways were normal. The FiO2 was decreased until exhaled FiO2 is less than 40% at which an electrocautery knife was used to make 2 incisions (1 and 5 o’clock) in the complex-appearing stricture after which a phase 8/9/10 mm Merritt dilatation balloon was used to gently dilate the airway. We then further dilated the airway to a maximal diameter of 13.5mm using the phased 12/13.5/15 mm Merritt dilatation balloon. The central portion of redundant tissue was then resected with the elecrocautery knife and an additional radial cut at the 3 o’clock position was performed. We then dilated again with the phased balloon to a maximum of 13.5 mm. The post dilatation airway diameter was about 10% obstructed. We monitored for evidence of bleeding and none was seen. The rigid bronchoscope was then removed and the procedure completed. .
Complications: None
Recommendations:
- Transfer to PACU and return to ward when criteria is met.  
- Case has been discussed with Dr. Harmeet Singh Bedi, interventional pulmonology at Stanford who is aware of the patient. We recommend that after transfer to Palo Alto neuro-rehabilitation facility he be consulted as repeat dilatation and possibly temporary stent placement will likely be required.