INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT
INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 30-year-old male who presents with a complicated effusion. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Chest Ultrasound and Instillation of agents for fibrinolysis (subsequent) were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient indicated a wish to proceed with the procedure and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Its indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form (or provided consent over the phone). The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

Complicated Effusion 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

Complicated Effusion 

PROCEDURE


76604: Ultrasound, chest (includes mediastinum), real time with image documentation 


32562: Instillation(s), via chest tube/catheter, agent for fibrinolysis (e.g., fibrinolytic agent for break up of multiloculated effusion); subsequent day 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL
Focused Thoracic Ultrasound Relevant procedural images were saved to the medical record.


Patient Position: Supine 


Hemithorax: Left 


Pleural Effusion Volume: Moderate 


Echogenicity: Anechoic 


Loculations: Thin 


Diaphragmatic Motion: Normal 


Lung Sliding: Present before procedure 


Pleura: Normal 

Intrapleural Fibrinolysis Administration The existing chest tube (inserted 12/29) on the left side was identified.


Agent Instilled: 10 mg tPA / 5 mg DNase 


Dose Number: 4 

COMPLICATIONS None 

IMPRESSION / PLAN
The patient is a 30-year-old male who presents for Chest Ultrasound and Instillation of agents for fibrinolysis (subsequent).

The patient tolerated the procedure well; there were no immediate complications.


Plan: Allow agents to dwell for 1 hour, then unclamp and place back on suction -20cm H2O at 3:00 PM.


Disposition: Nursing Unit.