INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old female who presents with airway stenosis.

The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure.

Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified.

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration 

Bronchial washing and Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) 

Transbronchial biopsy (TBBX) single and additional lobes 

Navigational Bronchoscopy (computer assisted) 

Radiologic guidance for CT guided needle placement (CIOS) 

3D rendering with interpretation (ION Planning Station) 

Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion 

Balloon dilation 

Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis (Microwave Ablation) 

Foreign body removal 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia.

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope, Radial EBUS, Ion Robotic Bronchoscope, Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Moderate.

COMPLICATIONS None.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Initial Airway Inspection The airway was inspected; the trachea and right lung were intact and appropriate to the segmental level.

The left mainstem was inflamed and the left upper lobe was visualized.

The left lower lobe was not visualized.

Robotic Navigational Bronchoscopy (Ion) A CT Chest scan was placed on a separate planning station to generate a 3D rendering of the pathway to the target. The navigational plan was reviewed, verified, and loaded into the robotic bronchoscopy platform.

Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration.

The Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the presumed left lower lobe orifice.

The target lesion was approximately 1 cm in diameter; under navigational guidance, the catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target.

Localization and Imaging (rEBUS & Cone Beam CT)

Radial EBUS was performed; the target location was not well visualized, noting soft tissue features.

Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was used for evaluation of target location, performing a low dose spin to acquire CT imaging.

I personally interpreted the cone beam CT and 3-D reconstruction.

3D reconstructions were performed on an independent workstation and passed to the Ion platform for nodule location.

Using the newly acquired nodule location, the Ion robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location.

The target airway was visualized and targets were placed to ensure optimal trajectory of the tools to open the obstructed airway.

Target Sampling


TBNA: Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with a 19G needle through the extended working channel catheter; total 2 samples were collected and sent for Microbiology and Cytology.


Biopsy: Transbronchial biopsy was performed with the precisor through the extended working channel catheter; total 2 samples were collected and sent for Microbiology and Pathology.

The robotic bronchoscope was advanced until the airway lumen was visualized, then the catheter was withdrawn and the robotic bronchoscope disconnected.

Therapeutic Interventions The therapeutic bronchoscope was used to clear the airway and the left lung was irrigated with saline.


Excision/Debulking: Granulation tissue and inflamed tissue were excised with the precisor, pulmonary, and large forceps.

Balloon Dilation:

Performed at the left lower lobe orifice using an 8/9/10 Elation balloon dilated to 10 mm (1 inflation, 60 seconds).

Performed again at the left lower lobe orifice using a 10/11/12 Elation balloon dilated to 12 mm (3 inflations, 60 seconds each).


Irrigation/Removal: Serial irrigation with iced saline was performed with excision of granulation tissue and blood clot/foreign body.


Ablation: The 2.5 cm microwave catheter was used to ablate the inflamed tissue for three minutes (3.5KJ and 67 degrees Celsius reached), followed by a pause for further extensive excision, and then one minute (1.3 KJ and 49 degrees Celsius reached).

Procedural Complexity Note This patient required extensive ablation and debulking with excision along the left mainstem and left lower lobe with multiple dilations and multiple episodes of excision between other therapeutic modalities. This resulted in >90% increased work due to increased intensity, time, technical difficulty, and physical/mental effort required.

Final Inspection The left upper lobe and the left lower lobe were better visualized. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMEN(S)

Left lower lobe transbronchial needle aspiration, transbronchial forceps biopsies 

Left mainstem and left lower lobe biopsies 

Left lower lobe bronchoalveolar lavage 

IMPRESSION / PLAN [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for airway stenosis.

Follow up CXR.

Follow up bronchoscopic lab work.

Plan for follow up bronchoscopy in ~1 week.