INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Name / Self, Referred]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 56-year-old male who presents with a bilateral lung transplant with complications of anastomosis dehiscence and ischemic lung injury. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. Consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

Right mainstem anastomosis dehiscence (healed) 

Bronchial stenosis (mild, LMS) 

PROCEDURE

31899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS) 

31646 Therapeutic aspiration, subsequent episodes 

31624 Diagnostic bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) 

ATTENDING [Name]

ASSISTANT [Fellow name]

SUPPORT STAFF RN: [Name] RT: [Name]

ANESTHESIA Local 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL A timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location). The flexible therapeutic bronchoscope was advanced for airway evaluation. Endobronchial topical lidocaine was applied to the main carina, RMS, BI, and LC2.

Initial Airway Inspection Findings:


Trachea: Distal trachea normal.


Right Mainstem (RMS): The anastomosis dehiscence continues to be healed and remains closed. A small metallic object, consistent with a likely hemoclip, was noted protruding from the posterior membrane near the RMS anastomosis site. This appeared slightly more prominent than the bronchoscopy performed 1 week prior. Fibrinous exudate and desired granulation tissue were present in the donor RMS, proximal RUL bronchus, BI, overlying RML take-off, and overlying RB6 take-off. All areas appear improved from previous exams. Some mildly heaped, non-obstructing granulation tissue was noted along the medial aspect of the RMS.


Right Upper Lobe (RUL): The previously seen area of full-thickness erosion/ulceration along the RUL anterior wall now appears fully covered by fibrinous exudate, suggesting early healing. This is greatly improved from 1 week ago.


Right Middle Lobe (RML): The take-off is narrowed but able to be traversed with the "regular" size disposable bronchoscope.


Right Lower Lobe (RLL): Basilar segments appear healthy. Moderate secretions were noted in the BI and RLL.


Left Mainstem (LMS): Anastomosis is intact with visible sutures and mild stenosis.


Left Upper Lobe (LUL): Evidence of continued healing with fibrin exudates and desired granulation tissue. The underlying mediastinum/pulmonary artery is no longer visible along the medial aspect of the LUL. This entire area continues to look improved from 1 week ago.


Left Lower Lobe (LLL): The Lingula take-off is narrowed but able to be traversed with the "regular" size disposable bronchoscope. LLL bronchus and segments appear healthy.

Interventions:


Therapeutic Aspiration: Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clear mild mucus from the trachea, right mainstem bronchus, right-sided stent, bronchus intermedius, right lower lobe bronchus, left mainstem bronchus, left upper lobe, and left lower lobe. Residual secretions were suctioned to clear.


Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL): BAL was performed at the RLL. 20 cc of NS was instilled, with a return of 10 cc.

The disposable bronchoscope was removed and the procedure completed. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications.

SPECIMENS

BAL of RLL – Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 56-year-old male who presented for bronchoscopy for airway evaluation, therapeutic aspiration, and stent removal.


Right Mainstem: Anastomosis dehiscence remains closed.


Right Upper Lobe: Prior full-thickness erosion/ulceration is now covered with fibrinous exudate/granulation tissue.

Plan:

Patient will remain in ICU.

Encourage ongoing aggressive secretion clearance practices.

Recommend bronchoscopic secretion clearance every 1-2 days, deferring to the transplant team's expertise.

Ongoing discussions with the transplant team regarding timing for the next IP bronchoscopy.

Replacement of stent remains possible if there are any signs of worsening at the RMS dehiscence site.