NOTE_ID:  note_212 SOURCE_FILE: note_212.txt Procedure Name: Medical Thoracoscopy (pleuroscopy) with parietal pleural biopsies
CPT code(s): CPT 320098 Thoracotomy, with biopsy(ies) of pleura
Indications: Left sided pleural effusion
Medications: As per anesthesia record
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. The patient was placed on the standard procedural bed in the right lateral decubitus position and sites of compression were well padded. The pleural entry site was identified by means of the ultrasound. The patient was sterilely prepped with chlorhexidine gluconate (Chloraprep) and draped in the usual fashion. The entry sites was infiltrated with a 10mL solution of 1% lidocaine. Following instillation of subcutaneous lidocaine a 1.5 cm subcutaneous incision was made and gentle dissection was performed until the pleural space was entered.  A 5 mm disposable primary port was then placed on the left side at the 6th anterior axillary line. After allowing air entrainment and lung deflation, suction was applied through the port to remove pleural fluid with removal of approximately 700cc of serosanguinous fluid. The rigid pleuroscopy telescope was then introduced through the trocar and advanced into the pleural space. The pleura was had multiple simple appearing adhesions and small whitish plaques were seen along the posterior parietal pleural. The 5mm disposable primary port was then replaced with an 8mm disposable primary port via the same tract and optical cupped biopsy forceps were introduced through the trocar and advanced into the pleural space. After gentle lysis of simple adhesions with the blunt closed forceps, biopsies of the suspicious areas in the parietal pleura posteriorly were performed with rigid cupped forceps and sent for histopathological and microbiological examination with approximately 8 total biopsies taken. There was minimal bleeding associated with the biopsies. After residual bleeding had subsided, a 14 French pigtail catheter was inserted through the port site and attached to pleuro-vac with suction. After air evacuation with cessation of bubbling in pleuro-vac the chest tube was removed and the site sutured and dressed. 
Complications: None
The patient tolerated the procedural well.
Post-procedure chest radiograph showed full lung re-expansion with minimal residual pleural effusion. 
Estimated Blood Loss: 10cc
Post Procedure Diagnosis: Pleural effusion 
Recommendation:
Discharge once post-op criteria met
Will await pathology and microbiological studies
