INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 33-year-old female who presents with respiratory failure and aspergilloma. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form or provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

Aspergilloma 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

Aspergilloma 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration initial episode (CPT 31645) 

Therapeutic injection(s) [eg, chemotherapy denervation agent or corticosteroid] (CPT 31573) 

ANESTHESIA


Moderate Sedation: Initial 15 minutes (99152); each additional 15 minutes (99153). Total Time: 83 minutes (Start: 1439; Stop: 1602). Medications:

Etomidate 20 mg 

Rocuronium 50 mg 

Dexmedetomidine gtt 1 mcg/kg/hr 

Propofol gtt 40 mcg/kg/min 

Fentanyl gtt 150 mcg/hr 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer throughout the procedure. The patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None.

COMPLICATIONS None.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.


Patient Position: Supine 

Initial Airway Inspection The bronchoscope was introduced through the tracheostomy tube.


Tracheostomy: Tube is in good position.


Upper Airway: Pharynx, Larynx, and Vocal Cords were not assessed due to introduction through tracheostomy tube.


Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.


Carina: Sharp.


Proximal Airways: Right and Left lung proximal airways showed normal anatomic branching to the segmental level.


Mucosa: Normal.


Secretions: Moderate bloody secretions with left greater than right.


Additional Findings: Uniblocker in place (deflated) at the Left Mainstem Bronchus (LMSB).

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out mucus, blood, and blood clots from the following segments:

Trachea (Distal 1/3) 

Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2) 

Left Mainstem, Left Carina (LC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1) 

Therapeutic Injection Amphotericin 50mg in 20cc sterile water was instilled into the Left Upper Lobe (LUL) as follows:

10cc into the apico-posterior (LB1/2) subsegment 

10cc into the anterior (LB3) subsegment 

Completion The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was in stable condition.

SPECIMENS None.

IMPRESSION / PLAN

33-year-old female presented for bronchoscopy for instillation of Amphotericin.

LUL Amphotericin instillation successfully performed.

Patient tolerated the procedure well; no immediate complications.

Continued care per primary team.

Repeat instillation of Amphotericin planned.