NOTE_ID:  note_251 SOURCE_FILE: note_251.txt PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Directional ultrasound with TBNA , Bronchoscopy, Flexible
INDICATIONS FOR EXAMINATION: Mediastinal adenopathy
MEDICATIONS: General anesthesia
INSTRUMENTS: #1 2401195 Q190
#9 7621262 UC180F
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY: No
LIMITATIONS: None, TOLERANCE: Good
PROCEDURE TECHNIQUE:
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed
consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the preprocedure
assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the
intervention.
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial
tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the
tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway was in good position.
VISUALIZATION: Good
FINDINGS: The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea
was of normal caliber however there was signifigant exhalational collapse indicitive of EDAC vs
TBM which extended into the proximal mainstem bronchi. . The carina was sharp. The
tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Bronchial mucosa
and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and no secretions. The video
bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was
introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the
tracheobronchial tree. Radiographically abnormal mediastinal lymph nodes were evaluated
and decision was made to sample the station 7 lymph node which was 9 mm in short axis
diameter and station 11L which was 7mm in short axis diameter. Sampling by transbronchial
needle aspiration was performed with the Olympus EBUSTBNA 22 gauge needle beginning
with the station 7 Lymph node, followed by the station 11L lymph node a total of 5 biopsies
were performed in each station. ROSE evaluation yielded benign appearing lymphocytes. All
samples were sent for routine cytology and flow cytometry. Following completion of EBUS
bronchoscopy, the Q190 video bronchoscope was then re-inserted and BAL was performed in
the RML with 120 cc of saline instilled and 35cc return. After suctioning blood and secretions. there was no evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was subsequently removed. Page 2 / 2
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 2
COMPLICATIONS: None
IMPRESSION: Technically successful flexible bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasoundguided
biopsies and bronchioalveolar lavage.
RECOMMENDATIONS
- Will await final pathology results