NOTE_ID:  note_162 SOURCE_FILE: note_162.txt Procedure Name: EBUS Bronchoscopy
Indications: lung cancer diagnosis and staging (left upper lobe tumor)
Medications: General Anesthesia
Procedure performed:
: 31653 bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) guided transbronchial sampling > 2 structures.
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention.
 Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway was in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea was of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first sub-segmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, except for in the left lower lobe in which the proximal origin was mildly extrinsically compressed.  The video bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. A systematic hilar and mediastinal lymph node survey was carried out. Sampling criteria (5mm short axis diameter) were met in station 11Rs (6.7mm), 10R (5.7mm), 4R (9.1mm), 2R (7.1 mm), 7 (15.7mm), 4L (6.9mm),  and 11L (21.1mm)  lymph nodes.  Sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed beginning with the 11Rs Lymph node followed by 7, and 4R, 2R lymph nodes using an Olympus EBUSTBNA 22 gauge needle. ROSE showed malignant cells in the 4R and 2R station consistent with N3 disease. We then moved to the large 11L lymph node and took 8 additional passes for molecular studies. All samples were sent for routine cytology and a dedicated pass from the 11L was sent for flow cytometry. The Q190 video bronchoscope was then re-inserted and after suctioning blood and secretions there was no evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was subsequently removed.

Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: 5 cc.

Post Procedure Recommendations:
- Transfer to post-procedure unit and home per protocol
- Will await final pathology results