INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: February 9, 2026 CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 57-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis of the right middle lobe (RML). The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration, initial episode (31645) 

Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) (31624) 

Endobronchial Biopsy(s) (31625) 

Balloon dilation (31630) 

Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (e.g., cryotherapy) (31641) 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimum 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Initial Airway Inspection The endotracheal tube was in good position. The visualized portion of the trachea was of normal caliber and the carina was sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level.


Findings: The airway exam was notable for mildly tortuous airways as before, with intact anastomoses bilaterally. Mild secretions were noted bilaterally, with thick purulent secretions emanating from the RML.


Stenosis: The RML orifice was approximately 75% narrowed with a combination of weblike stenosis and pedunculated granulation tissue.

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Bronchus Intermedius and RML Carina (RC2) from mucus and mucus plugs.

Endobronchial Biopsy Endobronchial biopsy was performed at the RML. The lesion was successfully removed. Samples were sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).

Balloon Dilation Balloon dilation was performed at the RML.

A Mustang 4mm balloon was used to perform dilation to 4 mm (1 inflation, 60 seconds).

A Mustang 6/7/8 balloon was subsequently used to perform dilation to 6 mm and 7 mm at the RML (2 inflations, 60 seconds each).

Endobronchial Tumor Destruction (Cryotherapy) Endobronchial obstruction at the RML was treated with cryotherapy.


Modality: Cryoprobe (1.7mm probe) 


Setting: 30-second freeze-thaw cycles 


Result: Ablation performed. Prior to treatment, the affected airway was noted to be 25% patent. After treatment, the airway was 100% patent.

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at the RML.

Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.

Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

RML EBBx (micro) 

RML BAL 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

57-year-old male with bronchial stenosis of the RML.

Ongoing recurrence of stenosis; patient is currently on a stent holiday.

Will need ongoing close vigilance of the airway due to tendency to fuse shut.

Follow-up BAL results.

Repeat bronchoscopy in 2 weeks for dilation.