INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode 

31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL) 

31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s) 

31630 Balloon dilation 

31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus 

31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy) 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENT Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimum 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Initial Airway Inspection Findings The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) was in good position.


Pharynx/Larynx: Not fully assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.


Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions.


Trachea: Normal.


Main Carina: Sharp.


Right Lung: Proximal airways showed normal anatomic branching to the segmental level. There was no evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology. The anastomosis site was noted to be normal.


Left Lung: The Left Mainstem Bronchus (LMSB) was noted to have stenosis (both static at the anastomosis and dynamic at the proximal LMSB). Otherwise, normal anatomic branching to the segmental level was observed with no evidence of mass, lesions, or bleeding.


Mucosa: Some cobblestoning was noted at the main carina and proximal LMSB; otherwise normal.


Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.

Therapeutic Interventions


Therapeutic Aspiration: Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean mucus from the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2).


Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL): BAL was performed at the Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4) and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5). 40 cc of NS was instilled, and suction returned 15 cc of NS. Samples were sent for Cell Count and Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).


Endobronchial Biopsy: Biopsy of cobblestoned mucosa was performed at the Left Mainstem and Carina using 2.0mm pulmonary forceps. Samples were sent for Pathology.


Stenosis Destruction: Endobronchial obstruction at the LMSB anastomosis stenosis was treated using electrocautery with a Needle Knife (EndoCut, Effect 3) making radial cuts. Prior to treatment, the affected airway was noted to be 75% patent.


Balloon Dilation (Pre-Stent): Balloon dilation was performed at the Left Mainstem. An 8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm. Total 1 inflation was performed with a dilation time of 60 seconds.


Stent Placement: A MicroTech 10 x 40mm stent was placed in the Left Mainstem.

Balloon Dilation (Post-Stent):

An 8/9/10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 10 mm at the Left Mainstem to fully extend and seat the stent (3 inflations, 30 seconds each).

A 10/11/12 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 12 mm at the Left Mainstem (3 inflations, 30 seconds each).


Result: After treatment, the airway was 100% patent.

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMEN(S)

LMSB endobronchial forceps biopsies 

Lingula BAL (cell count, micro) 

IMPRESSION / PLAN [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old male who presented for bronchoscopy for evaluation of bronchial stenosis.


MicroTech 10 x 40 mm stent was successfully deployed to the LMSB.

Patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.


Stent Hydration Regimen TID in the following order: 

Albuterol nebs

Hypertonic saline (3%) nebs

Flutter valve

Guaifenesin 1200mg PO BID.

Follow-up endobronchial biopsy and BAL results.

Outpatient follow-up in IP clinic as scheduled on [REDACTED].

Repeat bronchoscopy for stent check in 2-3 weeks.