INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 68-year-old female with respiratory failure. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to the procedures were discussed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration, initial episode (31645) 

Bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) (31624) 

Percutaneous tracheostomy (incision of windpipe) (31600) 

Esophagogastroduodenoscopy, flexible, transoral with directed placement of percutaneous gastrostomy tube (43246) 

Ultrasound of Neck (76536) 

ANESTHESIA

Moderate sedation 

Medications: Versed 4 mg, Fentanyl 100 mcg, Etomidate 20 mg, Rocuronium 43 mg 

Start time: 1513 | Stop time: 1700 | Total time: 107 minutes 

Administered by ICU RN 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer present throughout the entire procedure. The patient was monitored continuously one-to-one by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimum 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL

After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).


Patient Position: Supine 

Bronchoscopy and Airway Inspection The endotracheal tube was in good position. The pharynx, larynx, and vocal cords were not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through the ETT.


Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.


Main Carina: Sharp.


Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level; no evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.


Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level; no evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.


Mucosa: Normal.


Secretions: Copious thick and thin light-yellow mucus/secretions throughout.

Therapeutic Aspiration and BAL Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean mucus from the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2).

Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed at the Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5).

Instilled: 40 cc NS 

Returned: 25 cc NS 

Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.

Percutaneous Tracheostomy Neck ultrasound was performed at the proposed insertion site. The bronchoscope was retracted into the ETT and the ETT retracted into the subglottic space under direct visualization. The inferior border of the cricoid and proximal tracheal rings were visualized. The anterior neck was prepped and draped in sterile fashion.


Anesthesia: Lidocaine 1% (3 ml) was injected into the anterior neck.


Incision: A 1 cm horizontal incision was made with a #10 blade down through the subcutaneous tissue, just inferior to the cricoid cartilage.


Access: The introducer needle passed between the 1st and 2nd tracheal rings into the trachea under direct visualization. A J-wire was passed through the catheter, visualized with the bronchoscope.


Dilation: The site was dilated using the 14Fr introducing dilator passed over the wire. The 14Fr dilator was removed, and an 8Fr guiding catheter was placed over the wire until the safety ridge was at skin level. The tissue dilator was placed over the guiding catheter until the positioning mark was visualized via the bronchoscope. The tissue dilator was removed, leaving the guiding catheter and wire assembly in place.


Placement: A Portex 7.0mm cuffed tracheostomy tube with appropriate dilator was introduced over the guiding catheter into the trachea under direct visualization. The dilator, guiding catheter, and J-wire were removed, leaving the tracheostomy tube in place.


Confirmation: Good position was confirmed bronchoscopically. The ETT was removed and the ventilator connected to the tracheostomy tube.


Hemostasis/Dressing: Surgicel was placed preemptively around the site to reduce bleeding. A Lyofoam drain sponge was placed under the tracheostomy tube prior to suturing into place.

Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy (PEG) Under sterile prep and draping, the abdomen was evaluated. Ultrasound identified hepatic tissue just under the standard/traditional PEG insertion site (2 cm below costal margin on the left). As such, a new more lateral insertion site was chosen where no hepatic tissue was identified on ultrasound.


Access: The scope was introduced through the mouth; the stomach was reached within 10 seconds with continuous insufflation. The point of digital pressure was identified and transillumination was accomplished successfully.


Placement: A 1 cm incision was made and a 14ga angiocath introduced. Using modified Seldinger technique, a wire was introduced and pulled through the mouth using pull-through technique. The wire was linked to the 20Fr PEG catheter.


Positioning: The wire was pulled through the abdominal wall and the PEG tube positioned correctly with the bumper at 1.5 cm. Remaining air was suctioned out and complete apposition of the stomach and esophagus was seen.

Total procedural time for PEG was 20 minutes.

The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications. At the conclusion, the patient was in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

RML BAL (Cell Count, Cytology, Microbiology) 

IMPRESSION / PLAN 68-year-old female who presented for tracheostomy and PEG tube placement.

Post-procedure CXR.

Anticipate suture removal in 7 days.

Anticipate trach change in 10 days.

PEG Instructions:

PEG can be used for medications 6 hrs post procedure (@2200).

PEG (or NG tube) can be used for feeds 6 hrs post procedure (@2200).

No enteral feeding prior.

OK to restart systemic anticoagulation @2200, if needed.

If required to place gauze underneath the skin bumper, please use only 1 thin layer and change as needed to avoid tension on the gastric cuff.

Please call the Interventional Pulmonary fellow on call should there be any issues with the PEG.