INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: February 9, 2026 INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 56-year-old male who presents with airway evaluation and stent change. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient/surrogate in detail. The patient/surrogate indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

31646 Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes 

31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing 

ANESTHESIA Local ONLY 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL A timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Anesthesia and Airway Entry Lidocaine was instilled into the tracheostomy tube. The disposable bronchoscope was advanced. Lidocaine was applied to the main carina, right mainstem (RMS), bronchus intermedius (BI), and left secondary carina (LC2).

Initial Airway Inspection Initial inspection revealed frothy, non-obstructing white secretions in the RMS, BI, right middle lobe (RML), right lower lobe (RLL), left mainstem (LMS), and left lower lobe (LLL).

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the distal trachea, RMS, BI, RML, RLL, LMS, and LLL from mucus.

Airway Stent Surveillance and Findings The uncovered metallic stent was visualized in good position, appropriately spanning from the mid-RMS to the proximal BI. It fully covers and closes the prior area of RMS anastomosis dehiscence.


RUL: The stent is intentionally "jailing off" the right upper lobe (RUL) bronchus, but uncovered perforations between struts allow for ventilation of the RUL. Minimal secretions were noted overlying this area. The RUL bronchus and segments RB1 and RB2 were visualized from the RMS, though RB3 was not visualized. The RUL bronchus shows evidence of healing with fibrin exudates and desired granulation tissue.


Stent Integrity: The stent is perhaps mildly undersized, but there are no signs of migration nor significant granulation over the struts.


Right Lung: There is significant ischemic and necrotic debris remaining in the donor RMS and BI, overlying the RML take-off, and overlying the RB6 take-off. This is leading to moderate stenosis of the RML bronchus. The RLL basilar segments appear healthy.


Left Lung: The LMS anastomosis is intact with visible sutures and mild stenosis. The left upper lobe (LUL) bronchus shows evidence of healing with fibrin exudates and desired granulation tissue. The underlying mediastinum/pulmonary artery is no longer visible along the medial aspect of the LUL. The LLL bronchus and segments appear healthy.

Conclusion The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient will remain in the ICU in similar condition to prior.

SPECIMENS None 

IMPRESSION / PLAN


Status: 56-year-old male presented for bronchoscopy for stent exchange.


Findings: Uncovered metallic stent in good position.

Plan:

No plan for bronchoscopy by IP team for the remainder of this week unless clinical change occurs.

Patient continues to have issues with secretion clearance; 2-3x weekly bronchoscopy clean-out may be warranted until the patient becomes stronger or able to clear own secretions.

Will defer to lung transplant team's discretion/expertise regarding timing, which could be done under local anesthesia to minimize interruptions in nutrition/PT.

Likely bronchoscopy by IP team early next week (likely Monday).

Discussions with primary team regarding RML bronchus dilation.

Possible stent exchange late next week or the following week; as the stent is mildly undersized, will consider upsizing to 16x40 B.S. SEMS.