NOTE_ID:  note_164 SOURCE_FILE: note_164.txt Indications: Mediastinal adenopathy of unclear etiology
Procedure Performed: CPT 31653 EBUS bronchoscopy single station.
Pre-operative diagnosis: Mediastinal adenopathy 
Post-operative diagnosis: Mediastinal  adenopathy 
Medications: General Anesthesia,
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention.
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The distal right trachea was partially externally compressed and the right mainstem at the orifice was significantly externally compressed (85%) which opened up to normal in the distal right mainstem. The left mainstem and takeoff were normal. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and moderate thick secretions. The video bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. Ultrasound was utilized to identify and measure the radiographically suspicious station paratracheal mediastinal mass (level of 4R lymph node). The mass measured in short axis at 4.8 cm. Sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed beginning with the Olympus EBUS-TBNA 19 gauge Visioshot-2 needle with a total of 6 needle passes. Rapid onsite evaluation read as suspicious for lymphoma. All samples were sent for routine cytology or flow cytometry. Following completion of EBUS bronchoscopy the video bronchoscope was re-inserted and blood was suctioned from the airway. The bronchoscope was removed and procedure completed. 

Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: 3 cc.
Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Technically successful flexible bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound-guided biopsies.
- The patient has remained stable and has been transferred in good condition to the post-surgical monitoring unit.
- Will await final pathology results
