INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 57-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis. He presents for bronchoscopy for airway evaluation and BAL.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

Bronchial stenosis (Right and Left anastomosis) 

RML bronchial stenosis 

PROCEDURE

Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscopy

Therapeutic aspiration (initial episode) 

Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) of Right Middle Lobe 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

SPECIMENS

RML BAL - cell count, cultures/micro, cytology 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL A timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location). Sedation was initiated and an LMA was placed. The Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope was advanced for airway examination.

Initial Airway Inspection


Larynx: Not fully assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.


Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions.


Trachea: Mildly tortuous, otherwise normal. Endobronchial topical lidocaine was applied to the vocal cords, main carina, right carina 1, and left carina 2.


Main Carina: Sharp.

Right Lung Findings


Anastomosis: The right anastomosis site was intact with visible intact blue sutures at the site. There was mild stenosis of the right anastomosis without dehiscence.


Proximal Airways: The RUL and RB1-3 were normal to the segmental level. The bronchus intermedius and more distal lobes/airways were mildly rotated clockwise.


Right Middle Lobe (RML): The RML bronchus presented with moderate stenosis, estimated at ~5mm patent; it was unable to be traversed with the therapeutic bronchoscope. The mucosa appeared anthracotic. However, there was no associated granulation tissue and this was overall the best the RML has appeared prior to intervention. Patent RB5/RB5 was visualized.


Right Lower Lobe: RLL and RB6-10 had normal anatomic branching to the segmental level.

Left Lung Findings


Anastomosis: The left anastomosis site was intact with visible intact blue sutures at the site. There was mild stenosis of the left anastomosis.


Proximal Airways: The LUL bronchus and LB1-3 were normal to the first subsegmental level.


Lingula: Patent and LB4-5 were normal to the first subsegmental level; able to traverse the lingular bronchus with the therapeutic bronchoscope.

Interventions


Therapeutic Aspiration: Secretions were moderate, thin, and clear. Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clear mucus from the trachea, right mainstem bronchus, right upper lobe, bronchus intermedius, right middle lobe, right lower lobe, left mainstem bronchus, left upper lobe, and left lower lobe. All secretions were suctioned to clear.


Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL): Performed at the Right Middle Lobe (Lateral Segment RB4 and Medial Segment RB5). 40 cc of NS was instilled, and suction returned 15 cc of NS. Samples were sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.

Conclusion Residual secretions and saline were suctioned to clear. No bleeding was observed. The bronchoscope was removed. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient's LMA was removed in the operating room and the patient was transported to the recovery room in stable condition. The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications.

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 57-year-old male who presented for bronchoscopy for airway evaluation and BAL.

RML bronchus appears overall the best seen at the beginning of bronchoscopy, with no granulation tissue or signs of irritation.

Although unable to traverse with the therapeutic bronchoscope, the RB4 and RB5 subsegments are grossly patent.

To avoid undue inflammation, no dilation or other intervention was performed today.

Repeat bronchoscopy in 2-3 weeks to confirm stability of the RML bronchus.

Consideration of interventions depending on the appearance of the airway at that time.