INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 57-year-old male who presents with airway stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure.

Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate.

Consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode 

31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL) 

31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s) 

31629 TBNA single lobe 

31652 EBUS sampling 1 or 2 nodes 

31630 Balloon dilation 

31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus 

31640 Bronchoscopy with excision 

31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy) 

31635 Foreign body removal 

Modifier 22: Substantially greater work than normal (increased intensity, time, technical difficulty, and severity of patient's condition).

This patient required multiple modalities and increased effort (>100% increased work) to access and open the RML.

ATTENDING [Name]

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope; Flexible Hybrid (Pediatric) Bronchoscope; Linear EBUS.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Moderate 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Initial Airway Inspection


Laryngeal Mask Airway: Good position.


Pharynx/Larynx: Not fully assessed due to LMA introduction.


Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions.


Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.


Main Carina: Sharp.


Right Lung Proximal Airways: The RML orifice was unable to be identified on initial inspection; the airway had swallowed the prior RML stent and was fused shut. No evidence of mass, lesions, or bleeding elsewhere.


Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level. No mass, lesions, or bleeding.


Therapeutic Aspiration: Successful aspiration was performed to clear mucus from the Trachea, Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina, LUL Lingula Carina, and Left Carina.

RML Recanalization and Stent Removal The RML was initially unidentifiable, with suspicion that the stent had migrated distally with tissue overgrowth.


Localization: The EBUS scope was utilized to identify the RML orifice and distal stent.


Access: Transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) was utilized to re-create/re-open the RML orifice. Frank pus was aspirated from the RML during this maneuver.


Dissection: Following the creation of a pinhole opening via TBNA, pulmonary forceps were used to probe and blunt dissect to widen the opening.


Biopsy/Excision: Endobronchial biopsy was performed at the RML, and the lesion/tissue was successfully removed.


Dilation: A 4Fr Fogarty balloon was inserted to further open the RML. Purulent secretions distal to the obstruction were aspirated.


Distal Inspection & Lavage: The hybrid scope was used to explore the distal RML, successfully identifying the medial and lateral subsegments. BAL was performed at the Lateral (RB4) and Medial (RB5) segments.

Instilled 40 cc NS; returned 25 cc.


Balloon Dilation: Performed at RML Carina (RC2) using a 6/7/8 Elation balloon dilated to 8 mm (3 inflations, 60 seconds each).


Stent Removal: After excision and dilation, the RML was patent and the foreign body/old stent (iCAST 7mm x 16mm) was visualized. It was grasped with rat tooth forceps and removed en bloc.

Hemostasis Bleeding/oozing noted from the RML was treated with multiple modalities including cold saline, TXA, epinephrine, and electrocautery/coagulation.


Electrocautery: Probe used on forced coag mode (2-5 sec duration) for ablation/coagulation.

New Stent Placement To prevent recurrence of the stent being swallowed, a longer stent was initially selected.


Trial 1: iCAST 7mm x 22mm deployed; blocked off the RLL and was subsequently removed en bloc.


Trial 2: iCAST 7mm x 16mm placed; noted to be too proximal and subsequently removed en bloc.


Final Placement: iCAST 7mm x 16mm stent was placed in the RML and seated appropriately.


Post-Deployment Dilation: Balloon dilation performed at RML Carina (RC2) through the stent using a 6/7/8 Elation balloon dilated to 8 mm (1 inflation, 30 seconds) to seat the stent .

Conclusion The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. The patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

iCAST 7mm x 16mm stent (Pathology) 

RML BAL (Cell count, Microbiology/Cultures/Viral/Fungal, Cytology) 

RML Endobronchial Biopsy (Pathology) 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

57-year-old male presenting for evaluation of airway stenosis.

Patient's RML was closed off around the prior iCAST stent; the RML was reopened and the stent removed.

New iCAST stent (7mm x 16mm) placed successfully.

Follow-up pathology and BAL results.

Augmentin (875mg-125mg) 1 tab PO BID for 7 days.

Repeat bronchoscopy in 2 weeks for re-evaluation.