INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date]


ATTENDING PHYSICIAN: [REDACTED] 

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 77-year-old female who presents with a lung nodule. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field.

PROCEDURE

Robotic navigation bronchoscopy (Ion) to RUL, RLL, and LUL targets.

Radial EBUS for peripheral lesions.

Cone-beam CT (Cios Spin) with 3D rendering and instrument guidance.

Transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) of single and additional lobes.

Transbronchial biopsy (TBBX) of single and additional lobes.

Transbronchial cryobiopsy.

Transbronchial brushing.

Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL).

Fiducial marker placement.

Bronchoscopy with Endobronchial Ultrasound (EBUS) of mediastinal/hilar lymph nodes without biopsy.

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia.

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Linear EBUS, Radial EBUS, Ion Robotic Bronchoscope, Disposable Bronchoscope, Cios Spin system.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None.

COMPLICATIONS None.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL

After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location. A CT Chest scan was placed on a separate planning station to generate a 3D rendering of the pathway to the target. The navigational plan was reviewed, verified, and loaded into the robotic bronchoscopy platform.

Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, and Left Mainstem from mucus. Ventilation Parameters: Mode: VCV; RR: 14; TV: 300; PEEP: 12; FiO2: 100%; Flow Rate: 10; Pmean: 15.

RUL Target (Anterior Segment RB3) Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration. The Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Anterior Segment of the RUL (RB3). The target lesion is about 1 cm in diameter, and the catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target under navigational guidance.


rEBUS: Radial EBUS confirmed an eccentric nodule location. Features noted included continuous margin and absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.


Imaging: Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was performed for evaluation of nodule location. 3D reconstructions were performed on an independent workstation and passed to the Ion platform. The robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location based on this imaging.

Sampling:

TBNA: performed with 21G needle; 4 samples collected and sent for cytology.

TBBX: performed with alligator forceps; 1 sample collected and sent for pathology.

Cryobiopsy: performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe (6-second freeze); 6 samples collected and sent for pathology.

Brushing: performed with protected cytology brush; 1 sample collected and sent for microbiology.


BAL: Instilled 20 cc NS, return 10 cc; sent for microbiology.


Fiducial Marker: One 0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold marker was placed under fluoroscopy guidance.


ROSE: No evidence of malignant neoplasm.

RLL Target (Superior Segment RB6) Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration to engage the Superior Segment of the RLL (RB6). The target lesion is about 1 cm in diameter, and the catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target.


rEBUS: Radial EBUS confirmed a concentric nodule location with continuous margins.


Imaging: Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was performed with 3D reconstruction to evaluate and adjust nodule location .

Sampling:

TBNA: performed with 21G needle; 4 samples collected and sent for cytology.

Cryobiopsy: performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe (6-second freeze); 6 samples collected and sent for pathology.

Brushing: performed with protected cytology brush; 1 sample collected and sent for microbiology.


BAL: Instilled 40 cc NS, return 15 cc; sent for cell count, microbiology, and cytology.


Fiducial Marker: One 0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold marker was placed under fluoroscopy guidance.


ROSE: No evidence of malignant neoplasm.

LUL Target (Apical-Posterior Segment LB1/2) Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration to engage the Apical-Posterior Segment of the LUL (LB1/2). The target lesion is about 1 cm in diameter, and the catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target.


rEBUS: Radial EBUS confirmed an eccentric nodule location. Features noted included continuous margin and absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.


Imaging: Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was performed with 3D reconstruction to evaluate and adjust nodule location .

Sampling:

TBNA: performed with 21G needle; 4 samples collected and sent for cytology.

Cryobiopsy: performed with 1.1mm cryoprobe (6-second freeze); 6 samples collected and sent for pathology.

Brushing: performed with protected cytology brush; 1 sample collected and sent for microbiology.


BAL: Instilled 20 cc NS, return 5 cc; sent for microbiology.


Fiducial Marker: One 0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold marker was placed under fluoroscopy guidance.


ROSE: No evidence of malignant neoplasm.

Prior to withdrawal of the bronchoscope, inspection demonstrated no evidence of bleeding.

EBUS STAGING


Indications: Diagnostic. Technique: All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 5 mm or greater in short axis were considered for sampling. Lymph Nodes Inspected:

4R (lower paratracheal)

4L (lower paratracheal)

7 (subcarinal)

10R, 10L (hilar)

11Rs, 11Ri, 11L (interlobar).


Findings: Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS; no sampling was done as none met biopsy criteria. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness (Type 1–3).

CONCLUSION The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS


RUL: TBNA, TBCBX, Brush, BAL, TBBX.


RLL: TBNA, TBCBX, Brush, BAL.


LUL: TBNA, TBCBX, Brush, BAL.

IMPRESSION / PLAN

77-year-old female who presented for bronchoscopy for lung nodules.

Successful sampling of RUL, RLL, and LUL nodules using robotic navigation and cone-beam CT guidance.

Follow up in clinic for results.