NOTE_ID:  note_230 SOURCE_FILE: note_230.txt Procedure Name: EBUS Staging Bronchoscopy. (CPT 31652 convex probe endobronchial ultrasound sampling 2 or fewer hilar or mediastinal stations or structures).
Indications: diagnosis and staging of suspected lung cancer
Medications: General Anesthesia
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs 
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway was in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal.  The trachea was of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first sub-segmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal. No evidence of endobronchial disease was seen to at least the first sub-segments. A systematic hilar and mediastinal lymph node survey was carried out. Sampling criteria (5mm short axis diameter) were met in station 4R and 10R lymph nodes.  Sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed beginning with the 4R Lymph node, using an Olympus Visioshot2 EBUSTBNA 22 gauge needle. ROSE was consistent with malignancy. After obtaining adequate tissue for diagnosis and molecular markers the EBUS bronchoscope was removed and the Q190 video bronchoscope was then re-inserted and after suctioning blood and secretions there was no evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was subsequently removed. 

Complications: None
Estimated Blood Loss: 5 cc.

Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Technically successful flexible bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound-guided biopsies.
- The patient has remained stable and has been transferred in good condition to the post-procedural monitoring unit.
- Will await final pathology results