INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 67-year-old male who presents with Complicated Effusion. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to the procedure were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed. Consent was signed and witnessed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

Complicated Effusion 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

Complicated Effusion 

PROCEDURE

76604 Ultrasound, chest (includes mediastinum), real time with image documentation 

32557 Insert catheter pleura with imaging (chest tube) 

32561 Instillation(s), via chest tube/catheter, agent for fibrinolysis (eg, fibrinolytic agent for break up of multiloculated effusion); initial day 

ANESTHESIA Local ONLY; Lidocaine 1%: 15 ml 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimal 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL

Chest Ultrasound Focused thoracic ultrasound was performed and the image was saved and uploaded to the patient's medical record.


Hemithorax: Left 

Pleural Effusion: Large volume; Anechoic echogenicity 


Loculations: Thin 


Diaphragmatic Motion: Normal 

Lung: Lung sliding was absent before and post-procedure. Lung consolidation/atelectasis was present.


Pleura: Thick 

Pigtail Catheter Placement The patient was positioned supine. The insertion site was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion. Local anesthesia was achieved with 15 ml of Lidocaine 1%.

The entry site was identified at the Left 7th Intercostal Space along the Post-axillary line. A 14Fr catheter was selected.

A pigtail catheter was inserted using the Seldinger technique. Entry into the pleural space was confirmed with the easy removal of minimal serous appearing pleural fluid and air bubbles. A guidewire was inserted using the introducer needle pointed in the apical posterior direction. The introducer needle was then removed. A dilator was then inserted over the wire with a twisting motion in order to form a tract for catheter insertion. The dilator was removed and the pigtail catheter (with trochar) was advanced over the guidewire. The catheter was inserted into the chest until all catheter holes were well within the chest.

The guidewire and trochar were then removed. The tube was attached to the collection drain apparatus (Pleurovac) and secured in place with suture and covered. Suction was applied at -20cmH20.

Fluid Analysis


Volume Removed: 150 ml 


Appearance: Serous 

Fibrinolytic Therapy Following chest tube insertion, fibrinolytic therapy was initiated.


Medication: tPA (5 mg) / DNase (5 mg) 


Dose: #1 (Initial) 

SPECIMENS Fluid was sent for the following analysis:

LDH 

Glucose 

Total Protein 

Cholesterol 

Cell Count 

Gram Stain/Culture 

AFB 

Fungal Culture 

Cytology 

IMPRESSION/PLAN [REDACTED] is a 67-year-old male who presents for Chest Ultrasound, Chest tube placement, and Instillation of agents for fibrinolysis (initial).

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications.

Post-procedure CXR ordered.

Unclamp chest tube in 1 hour.

Strict I/O.

Daily CXR while chest tube in place.

Nursing chest tube flushing protocol.

Disposition: Nursing Unit.