NOTE_ID:  note_031 SOURCE_FILE: note_031.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 65 year old-year-old male who presents with respiratory failure.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.
 
CONSENT : Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J96.90 Respiratory Failure
 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J96.90 Respiratory Failure
 
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL)    
31600 Incision of windpipe (perc trach)
76536 Ultrasound of Neck
 
 
ANESTHESIA: 
99152 Moderate sedation: initial 15 minutes
99153 Moderate sedation: each additional 15 minutes 
 
Procedure performed under moderate sedation.  
 
The following medications were provided:
Etomidate30mg
Rocuronium80mg
Propofol gtt50 mcg/kg/min
Fentanyl gtt150 mcg/hr
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time:   1326
 
Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time:   1520
 
Total moderate sedation time was 114 minutes.  
 
Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered.   Sedation was administered by ICU RN. 
 
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
 
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Diagnostic Bronchoscope
 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
 
COMPLICATIONS:    None
 
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
 
PATIENT POSITION: Supine
 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
The endotracheal tube is in good position.
Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through ETT.
Larynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through ETT.
Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through ETT.
Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.
Main Carina: Sharp
Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level.  No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.
Mucosa: Normal.
Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.  
 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus. 
 
Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at Superior Segment of Lingula (LB4) and Inferior Segment of Lingula (LB5).  Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS.  Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.
 
Neck Ultrasound was performed to evaluate for any abnormal vessel, mass, structures at the site of percutaneous tracheostomy.  There were no significant vessels/mass were noted overlying the tracheostomy site on examination from the laryngeal prominence to the sternal notch.  
 
 
 
 
 
The bronchoscope was retracted into the ETT tube and the ET tube retracted into the subglottic space under direct visualization.  The inferior border of the cricoid along with the proximal tracheal rings were visualized.  Next, the anterior neck was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  Lidocaine 1% 3ml ml was injected into the anterior neck.  A 1 cm incision was made horizontally with a #10 blade down through the subcutaneous tissue, just inferior to the cricoid cartilage.  Suture (3-0 prolene) was placed around the incision site to create a Rummel tourniquet.  The introducer needle was then passed between the 1st and 2nd tracheal rings and into the trachea under direct visualization. Next, a J-wire was passed through the catheter, also visualized with the bronchoscope.  The site was then dilated using the 14Fr introducing dilator passed over the wire.  
 
The 14 Fr dilator was then removed from the guide wire and an 8 Fr guiding catheter placed over the guide wire until the safety ridge on the guiding catheter was at skin level.  The tissue dilator was placed over the guiding catheter until the positioning mark was visualized via the bronchoscope.  The tissue dilator was then removed leaving the guiding catheter and guide wire assembly in place, all under direct visualization bronchoscopically.
 
Finally a Shiley 8.0 cuffed tracheostomy tube with appropriate dilator was introduced over the guiding catheter into the trachea under direct visualization.  The dilator, guiding catheter, and J-wire were then removed and the tracheostomy tube left in place.  This was confirmed to be in good position bronchoscopically.  The Endotracheal tube was then removed and the ventilator connected to the tracheostomy tube.   Surgicel was placed preemptively around the tracheostomy site to reduce bleeding.  A Lyofoam drain sponge was placed under the tracheostomy tube prior to suturing into place.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no complications. The staff physician was present throughout the entire procedure. 
 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was in stable condition. 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
--Lingula BAL (cell count, micro, cyto)
 
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 65 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy and tracheostomy tube placement. Portex 8.0mm cuffed tracheostomy tube and Rummel tourniquet placed. Patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications.
 
--Post procedure CXR
--Anticipate suture removal in 7 days 
--Anticipate trach change in 10 days 