NOTE_ID:  note_191 SOURCE_FILE: note_191.txt Procedure Name: EBUS bronchoscopy
Indications: Mediastinal adenopathy 
Medications: Propofol infusion via anesthesia assistance  
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the preprocedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. 
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first sub-segmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and no secretions. The video bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. Ultrasound was utilized to identify and measure the radiographically enlarged station 7, 4R and 4L lymph nodes. Sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration using Olympus EBUSTBNA 22 gauge and 19G needles. At least 5 needle passes were performed at each lymph node station. All samples were sent for routine cytology. ROSE identified granulomas within the 4R lymph node. Following completion of EBUS bronchoscopy the video bronchoscope was re-inserted and blood was suctioned from the airway. There was no evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was removed and procedure completed. 

Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: Less than 5 cc.

Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Technically successful EBUS bronchoscopy
- Will await final pathology results 