INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Name] INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 76-year-old female who presents with airway stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form/provided consent over the phone.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified

PROCEDURE

31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode

31640 Bronchoscopy with excision

31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)

Modifier 22 Details: Unusual Procedure. This patient required multiple modalities for debulking and to treat bronchial stenosis. This resulted in >100% increased work due to Increased intensity, Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31640 Bronchoscopy with excision; 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis.

ATTENDING [REDACTED]

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope; Flexible Hybrid (Pediatric) Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Moderate

COMPLICATIONS None

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Patient Position: Supine

Initial Airway Inspection Findings: The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) is in good position.

Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.

Larynx: Normal.

Vocal Cords: Tissue/web at anterior commissure.

Trachea: Extrinsic compression from tumor at distal trachea, right side as well as some extruding tumor.

Main Carina: Sharp.

Right Lung Proximal Airways: Obstructed airways at RUL and beyond the proximal bronchus intermedius secondary to extrinsic compression and tumor in-growth.

Left Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level. No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding or other endobronchial pathology.

Mucosa: Erythematous and Friable.

Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear mucus. Blood at the bronchus intermedius and distal right-sided airways.

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus.

Endobronchial Tumor Excision Endobronchial tumor was noted and excised with mechanical debridement using forceps.

Note: Bleeding/oozing was noted from the airways so the decision was made to intubate the patient with an endotracheal tube. Anesthesia placed 8.0mm ETT without issue.

Endobronchial Tumor Destruction Endobronchial obstruction at the Bronchus Intermedius was treated with the following modalities:

Mechanical: Forceps used for tissue/tumor debulking.

APC: 2.3mm Straightfire probe (Forced, effect 3) used for tissue/tumor debulking and hemostasis.

Cryoprobe: 2.4mm Cryoprobe (3-10 second applications) used for tissue/tumor debulking and hemostasis.

Prior to treatment, affected airway was noted to be 5% patent. After treatment, the airway was 15% patent.

Hemostasis Endobronchial hemostasis was achieved. Bleeding/oozing was treated with cold saline, TXA (total 1000mg), and epinephrine (total 1000mg).

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

None

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 76-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for evaluation of airway stenosis.

Patient was noted to have extensive endobronchial tumor involvement at the right-sided airways. This was treated with multiple modalities including forceps, APC, and cryotherapy.

At the conclusion of the case patent distal right-sided airways were identified.

Post procedure CXR.

Continued care per primary team.

If patient has scant hemoptysis, would treat with TXA 500mg NEB Q8h.