INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT 

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a [Age]-year-old [Sex] who presents with a broncho-esophageal (anastomosis) fistula s/p Ivor Lewis Esophagostomy. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. Consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.


PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS 

Broncho-esophageal (anastomosis) fistula s/p Ivor Lewis Esophagostomy


POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS 

Broncho-esophageal (anastomosis) fistula s/p Ivor Lewis Esophagostomy

Status post occlusive left mainstem stent placement


PROCEDURE 

Flexible bronchoscopy via tracheostomy

Endobronchial biopsy (multiple sites)

Self-expandable airway stent placement (Aero)

Fluoroscopy guidance

Tracheostomy tube exchange (secondary to stent removal)


ATTENDING  [Name]


ANESTHESIA  General Anesthesia

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer throughout the procedure.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming patient identity, planned procedures, and laterality. Relevant procedural images were saved to the medical record.

Airway Inspection The flexible bronchoscope was passed through the patient's tracheostomy tube and into the airways. The trachea was normal. Purulent secretions were seen throughout the airways and were suctioned.

Right Lung: Inspection showed multiple small endobronchial nodular lesions concerning for airway metastasis.

Left Lung: A 1.5 cm fistula was identified at the medial aspect of the posterior wall of the mid-left mainstem. Distally, multiple small endobronchial lesions were noted with an appearance suggestive of malignancy.

Endobronchial Biopsy Multiple nodules from the left and right side were biopsied with flexible forceps. Samples were placed in formalin.

Stent Placement The length of the fistula was measured. A Jagwire was inserted through the flexible bronchoscope past the fistula within the left mainstem. Using fluoroscopy, the proximal and distal edges of the target area were marked with radiopaque markers (paper clips) taped to the patient’s chest wall. The flexible bronchoscope was removed.

An Aero 14x30 mm stent was advanced over the guidewire and positioned based on the external markers under fluoroscopic observation. The stent was deployed slightly proximally, with the distal edge just covering the fistula.

A second 14x40 mm Aero stent was placed into the previously placed stent to better cover the obstruction. Upon inspection, the originally placed stent (14x30 mm) was noted to have been pushed distally by the second stent, obstructing the orifice of the left upper and lower lobes.

Stent Revision and Tracheostomy Exchange The 14x40 mm stent was removed by grasping the proximal edge with forceps. The stent could not be retracted through the tracheostomy tube.

Tracheostomy Exchange: The tracheostomy tube was removed. The stent was pulled through the stoma. The tracheostomy tube was then re-inserted over a bronchoscope and re-attached to the ventilator.

Final Positioning The remaining 14x30 mm Aero fully covered self-expandable metallic stent was retracted into proper position (within the left mainstem covering the fistula) using forceps. Final inspection demonstrated satisfactory positioning. The bronchoscope was removed.


IMPRESSION / PLAN 

Transfer back to ICU.

Await tissue diagnosis from biopsied endobronchial nodules.

Obtain post-procedure chest imaging.

TID saline nebulizers along with ensuring oxygen is humidified to avoid mucous impaction and obstruction of stent.