INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 56-year-old male who presents with bilateral lung transplant and complications of anastomosis dehiscence, ischemic lung injury, and bronchial stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. Consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration, subsequent (CPT 31646) 

Diagnostic bronchoscopy with cell washing (CPT 31622) 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

SPECIMEN(S) None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL

A timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location). Sedation was initiated.

The disposable bronchoscope was advanced for airway examination. Endobronchial topical lidocaine was applied to the main carina, right carina 1, and left carina 2.

Initial Airway Inspection Findings:


Tracheostomy: Tube in good position.


Trachea: Distal trachea and main carina normal.


Right Mainstem (RMS): Dehiscence continues to be healed and remains closed. Stable fibrinous tan exudate/granulation tissue noted in the donor RMS, proximal RUL bronchus, bronchus intermedius (BI), overlying RML take-off, and overlying RB6 take-off.


Right Upper Lobe (RUL): Prior area of full-thickness erosion/ulceration along the anterior wall remains fully covered by fibrinous exudate/granulation tissue. RB1-2 normal. RB3 mildly stenotic with swirling granulation tissue/scar forming around the segmental airway take-off.


Right Middle Lobe (RML): Stent (Aero 8x15mm covered metallic stent) in good position and fully patent. Able to traverse scope in the RML stent, but not into the segmental airways.


Right Lower Lobe (RLL): Able to see RB4-5 from stent; these segments were fully patent. RB6 patent. The RLL basilar segments RB7-10 appear healthy and patent.


Left Mainstem (LMS): Anastomosis intact with visible sutures; overlying granulation tissue causing mild to moderate stenosis.


Left Upper Lobe (LUL): Prior area of full-thickness erosion/ulceration along the medial wall remains fully covered by fibrinous exudate/granulation tissue.

Lingula: Mildly stenotic but fully patent. Able to traverse scope into lingula. LB1-5 are patent.

Left Lower Lobe (LLL): Bronchus and segments appear healthy. LB6-10 are patent.

Therapeutic Interventions: Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the RMS, BI, RLL, LMS, and LLL from moderate thin mucus/secretions.

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was returned to ICU in stable condition.

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 56-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis airway evaluation.

Plan for repeat bronchoscopy by IP in 2 weeks.

OK to restart anticoagulation.