INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 49-year-old adult who presents with Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RPP). The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

1899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS) 

31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode 

31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s) 

31630 Balloon dilation 

31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy) 

CODE MODIFIERS Unusual Procedure (22 MODIFIER): This patient required multiple forms of ablative therapy (soft coag and cryotherapy) to multiple different structures, including glottis, infraglottis, subglottis, and tracheal structures. This resulted in >50% increased work due to Time, Technical difficulty of procedure, Severity of patient's condition, and Physical and mental effort required. Apply to: 31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision.

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Rigid Tracheoscope; Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Trivial 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL A timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location). Sedation was initiated and an LMA was placed.

Flexible Bronchoscopy & Airway Inspection The Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope was advanced for airway examination. Endobronchial topical lidocaine was applied to the vocal cords and larynx.


Larynx/Vocal Cords: Vocal cords demonstrated appropriate adduction/abduction. A large patch of papillomas was noted at the anterior commissure of the larynx and right vocal cord.


Trachea: The proximal trachea showed a focal area of spiraling tissue creating a focal area of mild stenosis (about 20% stenosis prior to treatment). The therapeutic bronchoscope was able to easily traverse the area of mild stenosis without issue.


Right Lung: Assessment of right airways revealed normal anatomic branching to the first subsegmental level. There was no evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.


Left Lung: Assessment of left airways revealed normal anatomic branching to the first subsegmental level. There was no evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.

Intervention: Tumor Destruction and Debridement Endobronchial papillomatous tumors at the proximal trachea, subglottic region, infraglottic region, left vocal fold, and anterior commissure were treated.


Modalities: VC papilloma were treated with a combination of cryospray, electro-cautery (PreciSect/softcoag), and mechanical debulking.


Cryotherapy: The base of all patch sites was treated with cryotherapy.


Tool: 2.3 mm catheter.


Settings: Normal flow, Freeze, 5-second burst.


Result: Tumor frozen, 5 sites treated with 3-5 treatments each.


Mechanical Debridement: Endobronchial tumor and coagulated debris were noted and excised with mechanical debridement using alligator forceps. Specimens were sent to pathology and microbiology.

Intervention: Rigid Tracheoscopy & Dilation A rigid tracheoscope was used to dilate the proximal tracheal obstruction, mechanically coring through the tumor.


Dilation: A black non-ventilating scope was used to perform dilation to 12 mm at the Trachea (Proximal 1/3).


Duration: Total of 2 inflations with dilation time of 300 seconds each.


Additional Ablation: Cryospray was performed at the tumor site in the proximal trachea for 2 different sites. A total of 3-5 treatments with 5 seconds of freeze at Normal flow was completed for both sides.

Results & Conclusion Prior to treatment, the proximal trachea airway was noted to be 40% patent. After treatment, the airway was 90% patent. Throughout the procedure, careful attention was paid to suction any secretions and blood to prevent them from falling into the distal trachea or more distal airways. Residual secretions and blood were suctioned to clear. Video imaging was obtained and saved, and the bronchoscope was removed.

The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient had the airway device removed in the operating room and was transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMEN(S) Trachea biopsy: Pathology.

IMPRESSION/PLAN [REDACTED] is a 49-year-old adult who presents for bronchoscopy for ablation of papillomatous tumors in the context of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.

Recommend repeat bronchoscopy in 4-6 weeks to reassess recurrence of papillomas and consideration of additional treatment.