NOTE_ID:  note_224 SOURCE_FILE: note_224.txt Procedure Name: Bronchoscopy with brush and BAL
Indications: FDG avid left hilar lymph node vs parenchymal lesion
Medications: via anesthesia assistance  
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the preprocedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. 
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Left upper lobe stump from previous lobectomy appeared intact.Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and no secretions. The bronchoscope was then removed and the Q180 EBUS bronchoscope was inserted and we attempted to advance it into the proximal left upper lobe but were unable to adequately visualize lesion. We then re-inserted the Q190 video bronchoscope and attempted to visualized lesion with radial ultrasound but were also unsuccessful. At this point brush biopsy was performed in the proximal left  lower lobe takeoff near the area of concern followed by bronchioloalveolar lavage.  Given the proximity of the lesion to pulmonary vasculature and inability to adequately visualize with radial ultrasound biopsies with forceps or needles were deemed to be too high risk and not performed. After samples were obtained the bronchoscope was removed and the procedure was complete
Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: Less than 5 cc.
Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Technically unsuccessful convex and radial ultrasound localization of left hilar abnormality 
- Uncomplicated BAL and brush biopsy of the left lower lobe 
- Will await final pathology results 