NOTE_ID:  note_248 SOURCE_FILE: note_248.txt PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Tracheal-esophageal fistula presumed malignant tracheal obstruction 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Tracheal-esophageal fistula with mixed intrinsic/extrinsic presumed malignant tracheal obstruction 
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Rigid bronchoscopy, Dual tracheal self-expandable airway stent placement
INDICATIONS: Tracheal-esophageal fistula with tracheal obstruction
Sedation: General Anesthesia
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The procedure was performed in the main operating room. After administration of sedatives an LMA was inserted and the flexible bronchoscope was passed through the vocal cords and into the trachea. Approximately 3 cm distal to the vocal cords was a long segment of airway obstruction from extrinsic compression as well as submucosal infiltration. At the maximum obstruction (mid trachea the airway was approximately 70% obstructed. The tumor was mostly confined to the posterior and left lateral wall. At the distal aspect of the tumor (3cm proximal to the main carina there was an obvious fistulous communication with the esophagus in the left recess between the posterior and lateral tracheal wall.  The distal 3 cm of the trachea appeared normal. There was purulent material in the left mainstem which was suctioned and all airways beyond the trachea appeared normal without evidence of mucosal irregularities of endobronchial disease. The flexible bronchoscope and LMA were removed and a 14mm non-ventilating rigid tracheoscope was subsequently inserted into the mid trachea and connected to ventilator. At this point we inserted a JAG guidewire into the trachea and with bronchoscopic observation placed a 16x60 mm Aero fully covered self-expandable metallic stent. The stent deployed more distally than expected with the distal edge within the right mainstem and the proximal edge not fully covering the obstruction. We were able to pull the stent proximally but slightly more proximal than expected to cover the upper tracheal obstruction but the distal margin and TE fistula remained exposed.  At this point our thought was that the obstruction was covered and that GI would place a stent to cover the fistula. The rigid bronchoscope was removed and GI then attempted through EGD to place the stent but were unable to bypass the esophageal obstruction. We then re-intubated with the tracheoscope and using a similar technique to before and using forceps biopsied the exposed tumor. We then placed a second 16X60 aero SEM into the distal trachea telescoping into the more proximal stent. This resulted in complete occlusion of the fistula and complete opening of the trachea to a normal diameter. At this point inspection was performed to evaluate for any bleeding or other complications and none was seen. Once the patient was felt to be able to adequately protect airway the rigid bronchoscope was removed and the procedure was completed. 
Post procedure diagnosis:
Mixed infiltrative tumor of the trachea and TE fistula s/p tracheal stenting with complete recanalization and obstruction of fistula 
Recommendations:
- Transfer to PACU
- Await tissue diagnosis
- Obtain post procedure CXR- TID saline nebulizers to avoid mucous impaction and obstruction of stent