INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 56-year-old male who presents with respiratory failure. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

PROCEDURE

31646 Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes 

31622 Dx bronchoscope/cell washing 

31624 Dx bronchoscope/lavage (BAL) 

31630 Balloon dilation 

50 Bilateral Procedures 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimum 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Initial Airway Inspection The airway was inspected from above the tracheostomy tube. The vocal cords were normal appearing. The tracheostomy tube was in good position and the balloon was inflated. Secretions were suctioned and lidocaine was applied.

The airway was inspected via the tracheostomy.


Right Lung: The right-sided stent was in good position. There was significant necrosis/granulation tissue around the suture site and medially along the transplanted lung, covering the orifice of the right middle lobe. The right lower lobe was preserved. The portion of the right upper lobe takeoff visible through the stent appeared intact, though an area around 9 o'clock appeared potentially injured.


Left Lung: The left lung anastomosis site had similar medial necrosis and granulation tissue. The lingula was patent but obscured with necrosis. The left upper lobe anterior segment had some necrosis, while the left upper lobe proper was preserved. The left lower lobe was preserved.

Interventions


Endobronchial Biopsy (CPT 31625): Performed at the RML Carina (RC2). The lesion was successfully removed and samples were sent for pathology.


Balloon Dilation (CPT 31630): Performed at the RML Carina (RC2). An 8-9-10 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm and to 9 mm. Total of 2 inflations were performed with a dilation time of 60 seconds each.


Bronchoalveolar Lavage (CPT 31624): Performed at the Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5). Instilled 40 cc of NS, suction returned with 25 cc of NS. Samples were sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.


Therapeutic Aspiration (CPT 31646): Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean mucus from the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2).

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

Right middle lobe BAL 

Right middle lobe EBBX 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

56-year-old male who presented for bronchoscopy for respiratory failure and airway dilation.

Follow-up bronchoscopic lab work.

Follow-up bronchoscopy planned for later this week or early next week.