INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [Patient Name] is a 56-year-old male who presents with airway stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. Consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode 

31625 Endobronchial Biopsy(s) 

31636 Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus 

31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy) 

ATTENDING [Name]

ASSISTANT [Fellow name]

SUPPORT STAFF RN: [Name] RT: [Name]

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope; Flexible Hybrid (Pedatric) Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Initial Airway Inspection There were significant stenosis noted at the lingula orifice. Mild stenosis was noted at the Right Mainstem (RMS) anastomosis and Bronchus Intermedius (BI).

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem and Left Mainstem from mucus.

Right Mainstem and Bronchus Intermedius Interventions Endobronchial obstruction at the Right Mainstem and Bronchus Intermedius was treated with the following modalities:


Electrocautery: Needle knife, Effect 4, 40W, was used to make 2-3 second radial cuts.


Biopsy: Endobronchial biopsy was performed at the Bronchus Intermedius. The lesion was successfully removed and samples were sent for Pathology.


Balloon Dilation: A 10/11/12 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 12 mm at the Right Mainstem. Total 1 inflation with dilation time of 60 seconds.

Result: Prior to treatment, the affected airway was noted to be 80% patent. After treatment, the airway was 100% patent.

Lingula Interventions Endobronchial obstruction at the lingula orifice was treated with the following modalities:


Electrocautery: Needle knife, Effect 4, 40W, was used to make 2-3 second radial cuts.


Balloon Dilation: A 6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1). Total 1 inflation with dilation time of 60 seconds.


Stent Placement: The following stent (Aero mini 6x10) was placed in the lingula orifice.

Result: Prior to treatment, the affected airway was noted to be 20% patent. After treatment, the airway was 100% patent.

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

Bronchus Intermedius Biopsy - Pathology 

IMPRESSION/PLAN

[Patient Name] is a 56-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for airway stenosis.

Follow up in 2 weeks for repeat bronchoscopy.

Await final pathology results.