INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 48-year-old female who presents with dyspnea. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. 

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure.


Consent Status: The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained. 


Discussion: Risks, benefits, and alternatives were discussed in detail. 

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field. 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field. 

Subglottic scarring/stenosis. 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration (initial episode). 

Diagnostic bronchoscopy with cell washing. 

Endobronchial biopsy(s). 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia. 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure. 

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope. 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None. 

COMPLICATIONS None. 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location). 

Initial Airway Inspection The airway was inspected. The vocal cords were normal appearing. Lidocaine was applied to the vocal cords and the airway. 


Findings: The airway anatomy was notable for scarring at the subglottic space, the previous site of stenosis. There was minimal narrowing at this site. The remainder of the airway was normal appearing to the segmental level bilaterally. 

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out mucus from the following segments: 

Vocal Cord

Subglottic

Trachea (Proximal 1/3, Middle 1/3, Distal 1/3)

Right Mainstem

Bronchus Intermedius

Left Mainstem

Carina

RUL Carina (RC1)

RML Carina (RC2)

LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1)

Left Carina (LC2)

Endobronchial Biopsy Endobronchial biopsy was performed at the subglottic level. The lesion was successfully removed. Samples were sent for Pathology. 

Conclusion The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 

SPECIMEN(S)

Subglottic endobronchial biopsies. 

IMPRESSION/PLAN

48-year-old female presented for bronchoscopy for dyspnea. 

Airway inspection revealed subglottic scarring with minimal narrowing; remainder of airway normal. 

Therapeutic aspiration performed for mucus clearance across multiple segments. 

Subglottic lesion successfully biopsied and removed. 


Plan: Follow-up bronchoscopic lab work.