INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old male who presents with lung transplant and airway stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient. Consent was signed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE

Rigid Bronchoscopy (Conversion required for stent removal/replacement) 

Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes (31646) 

Bronchoscopy with BAL (31624) 

Balloon dilation (31630) 

Dilate and bronchial stent initial bronchus (31636) 

Foreign body removal (stent removal) (31635) 

MODIFIERS / COMPLEXITY

Modifier 22: Substantially greater work than normal (increased intensity, time, technical difficulty, and physical/mental effort).

Patient required conversion to rigid bronchoscopy for stent removal and re-placement.

This resulted in >50% increased work.

Increased complexity due to bilateral mainstem interventions: 31630 completed in the right mainstem bronchus and 31636 performed in the left main stem bronchus.

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Rigid Bronchoscope, Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope, Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimum 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).


Patient Position: Supine 

Initial Airway Inspection The laryngeal mask airway was in good position.


Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.


Larynx/Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions.


Trachea: Normal. Mucus was noted within the trachea at the outset of the procedure.


Main Carina: Sharp.


Right Lung Proximal Airways: Slight stenosis at anastomosis site without evidence of dehiscence. Normal anatomic branching to segmental level with no evidence of mass, lesions, or bleeding.


Left Lung Proximal Airways: Stent in place at LMSB with thick mucus throughout. Granulation noted at the distal stent with evidence of distal stent migration and occlusion of the LUL.


Secretions: Copious thick and thin secretions throughout with left greater than right.

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus.

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at the Anteromedial Segment of LLL (Lb7/8).

Instilled 80 cc of NS, suction returned with 20 cc of NS.

Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.

Rigid Bronchoscopy and Stent Removal Given evidence of distal migration of the stent and occlusion of the left upper lobe, the decision was made to remove the patient's stent and place a larger stent.

After induction of muscle relaxants, a tooth or gum protector was placed.

The black rigid barrel was introduced through the mouth and advanced in the midline while keeping alignment with the axis of the trachea.

The vocal cords were identified and the rigid bronchoscope was advanced carefully to the mid-trachea.

Jet ventilation was initiated and chest wall movement confirmed.

The rigid bronchoscope was placed in the left mainstem bronchus.

The patient's stent was grasped with single-action rigid forceps and removed from the patient's airway through the rigid bronchoscope (foreign body removal).

Stent Placement (Left Mainstem)

A Bonastent, 12 x 50mm (covered), was placed in the Left Mainstem.

Balloon dilation was performed at the Left Mainstem through the stent to fully expand and seat the stent.

A 10/11/12 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 12 mm.

Total 3 inflations were performed with a dilation time of 10 seconds each.

Balloon Dilation (Right Mainstem)

Balloon dilation was performed at the Right Mainstem at the stenotic anastomosis site.

A 10/11/12 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 12 mm.

Total 1 inflation was performed with a dilation time of 60 seconds.

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

LLL BAL (cell count, micro, cyto) 

LMSB stent (pathology) 

IMPRESSION / PLAN [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for evaluation of airway stenosis and stent evaluation.

Patient underwent stent removal and re-placement without immediate complication.

Continue stent hydration regimen TID: 1) Albuterol nebs, 2) Hypertonic saline (3%) nebs, 3) Flutter valve.

Guaifenesin 1200mg PO BID.

Follow up BAL results.

Repeat bronchoscopy in 2-4 weeks for re-evaluation.

Follow-up in outpatient Interventional Pulmonology clinic as scheduled on [REDACTED].