INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 60-year-old female who presents with airway stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Its indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.8 Other nonspecific abnormal finding of lung field

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration initial episode (CPT 31645)

Diagnostic bronchoscopy/lavage (BAL) (CPT 31624)

Dilate and tracheal stent placement (CPT 31631)

Bronchoscopy with excision (CPT 31640)

Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (e.g., laser therapy, cryotherapy) (CPT 31641)

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia.

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer throughout the procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope; Flexible Hybrid (Pediatric) Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None.

COMPLICATIONS None.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming patient identity, planned procedures, and laterality.

Patient Position: [Supine] Initial Airway Inspection: Significant narrowing was noted at the cord level; the therapeutic scope was not able to be passed.

Surgical Planning Measurements:

Distance from vocal folds to stenosis: 0 mm

Location of stenosis relative to cricoid: At cricoid

Distance from top of stenosis to bottom: 105 mm

Distance of bottom of stenosis to carina: 90 mm

Approximation of most narrow portion: 6 mm

Interventions:

Endobronchial Tumor Destruction / Incision (Electrocautery) Endobronchial obstruction at the subglottic level was treated with electrocautery.

Tool: Knife (needle)

Settings: Endo cut I 2 2 1

Technique: Radial cut (4-second burst)

Results: Prior to treatment, the affected airway was noted to be 50% patent. After treatment, the airway was 50% patent.

Balloon Dilation Bronchial stenosis was dilated with a balloon catheter.

Location: Trachea (Proximal 1/3)

Device: 8/9/10 Elation balloon

Technique: Dilated to 10 mm. Total 3 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.

Endobronchial Excision / Debridement Endobronchial excision of tissue was performed at the Trachea (Proximal 1/3). The lesion was successfully removed. A sheet of tissue was completely peeled off with forceps in a circular fashion. Samples were sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal) and Cytology.

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) BAL was performed in the Lateral Segment of RML (RB4) and Medial Segment of RML (RB5) with saline instilled and returned.


Volume: Instilled 60 cc of NS; suction returned with 20 cc of NS.


Analysis: Samples sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the airways from mucus and blood.


Locations: Trachea (Proximal 1/3, Middle 1/3, Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, and Left Mainstem.

Termination: The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

Endobronchial Biopsy (EBBX) — Cytology/Microbiology

BAL — Cell Count, Microbiology, Cytology

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 60-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for subglottic stenosis.

Repeat bronchoscopy in 4-6 weeks.

Follow-up in clinic.