NOTE_ID:  note_187 SOURCE_FILE: note_187.txt Procedure Name: EBUS bronchoscopy, transbronchial lung biopsy and bronchoalveolar lavage
Indications: Mediastinal adenopathy and interstitial lung disease 
Medications: Propofol infusion via anesthesia assistance  
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the preprocedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. 
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and no secretions. The video bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. Ultrasound was utilized to identify and measure the radiographically enlarged station 7, 4R and 11Rs lymph nodes. Sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed beginning with the station 4R lymph node, followed by the station 7 lymph node and finally the 4L lymph node using an Olympus EBUSTBNA 22 gauge needle. Rapid onsite evaluation read as benign lymphoid tissue in all sampled nodes. All samples were sent for routine cytology and flow cytometry. Following completion of EBUS bronchoscopy the video bronchoscope was re-inserted and blood was suctioned from the airway. Using fluoroscopy transbronchial forceps lung biopsies were performed in both the right middle lobe and right lower lobe. Finally BAL was performed with 120cc instillation and 40cc return. Prior to removing the bronchoscope an airway examination was performed and no evidence of active bleeding was seen. The bronchoscope was removed and procedure completed. 

Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: Less than 5 cc.

Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Technically successful EBUS bronchoscopy, transbronchial lung biopsy and bronchoalveolar lavage 
- Will await final pathology and culture results 