INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 56-year-old male who presents with bilateral lung transplant with complication of anastomosis dehiscence and ischemic lung injury. The patient presents for bronchoscopy for airway evaluation, therapeutic aspiration, and potential stent removal.

CONSENT The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

Bilateral lung transplant airway complications (anastomosis dehiscence, ischemic injury) 

PROCEDURE

31899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS) 

31646 Therapeutic aspiration, subsequent episodes 

31624 Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) 

ANESTHESIA Local anesthesia.

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None.

COMPLICATIONS None.

SPECIMEN(S)

BAL of RLL - cultures/micro 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL A timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location. The Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope was advanced for airway evaluation. Endobronchial topical lidocaine was applied to the main carina, right mainstem (RMS), bronchus intermedius (BI), and LC2.

Airway Inspection Findings


Trachea: Distal trachea appeared normal.

Right Lung:


RMS: The dehiscence continues to be healed and remains closed. A small metallic object, likely a hemoclip, was noted protruding from the posterior membrane near the anastomosis site, slightly more prominent than the bronchoscopy 1 week prior.


Granulation/Exudate: Fibrinous exudate and granulation tissue persist in the donor RMS, proximal RUL bronchus, BI, overlying RML take-off, and overlying RB6 take-off, though all areas appear improved from previous exams. Mildly heaped nonobstructing granulation tissue was noted along the medial aspect of the right mainstem bronchus.


RUL: Previously seen area of full-thickness erosion/ulceration along the anterior wall now appears fully covered by fibrinous exudate, suggesting early healing; this is greatly improved from 1 week ago.


RML: Take-off is narrowed but able to be traversed with the "regular" size disposable bronchoscope.


RLL: Basilar segments appear healthy.

Left Lung:


LMS: Anastomosis is intact with visible sutures and mild stenosis.


LUL: Evidence of continued healing with fibrin exudates and granulation tissue. The underlying mediastinum/pulmonary artery is no longer visible along the medial aspect, indicating the entire area is improved from 1 week ago.


Lingula: Take-off is narrowed but able to be traversed with the "regular" size disposable bronchoscope.


LLL: Bronchus and segments appear healthy.

Interventions


Therapeutic Aspiration: Moderate secretions were noted in the BI and RLL. Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clear mild mucus from the trachea, right mainstem bronchus, right-sided stent, bronchus intermedius, right lower lobe bronchus, left mainstem bronchus, left upper lobe, and left lower lobe.


Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL): Performed at the RLL. 20 cc of normal saline was instilled, and 10 cc was returned via suction. Samples were sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).

Completion Residual secretions were suctioned to clear. The disposable bronchoscope was removed and the procedure completed. The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications. The patient will remain in the ICU afterward.

IMPRESSION / PLAN

Right mainstem anastomosis dehiscence remains closed.

Prior RUL full-thickness erosion/ulceration is now covered with fibrinous exudate/granulation tissue.

Encourage ongoing aggressive secretion clearance practices.

Recommend bronchoscopic secretion clearance every 1-2 days, deferring to the transplant team's expertise.

Ongoing discussions with the transplant team regarding timing for the next IP bronchoscopy.

Replacement of stent remains possible if there are signs of worsening at the RMS dehiscence site.