INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 65 year old-year-old male who presents with tracheostomy change. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. Patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Its indications and potential complications and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form / provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure

PROCEDURE

31899 Unlisted Procedure (Trach Change with Mature Tract or Procedure NOS)

31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode

31899NFJ Tracheostomy Change After Establishment of Fistula Tract; Without an E/M Service or Other Endoscopy Procedure

31615 Visualization of windpipe (Tracheobronchoscopy through established tracheostomy incision)

ANESTHESIA

Procedure performed under moderate sedation.

Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia start time: 11:50.

Physician/patient face-to-face anesthesia stop time: 12:20.

Total moderate sedation time was 30 minutes.

Patient was monitored continuously one-to-one throughout the entire procedure by the attending physician while anesthesia was administered. Sedation was administered by RN.

Medications provided:

Versed 4 mg

Fentanyl 100 mcg

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None.

COMPLICATIONS None.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, and Left Mainstem from mucus.

Tracheostomy Tube Change Upper airway was suctioned and cleared. Endotracheal suctioning performed. The cuff was deflated and the tracheostomy tube was easily removed. The stoma appeared widely patent and no granulation tissue was immediately visualized. The new tracheostomy tube was then placed with obturator in place. The obturator was removed, inner cannula was placed and the cuff inflated.

Percutaneous tracheostomy was changed from:

Portex cuffed Trach ISO/ID size 8.0mm To

Portex cuffed Trach ISO/ID size 8.0mm without issue.

Tracheobronchoscopy Tracheobronchoscopy was performed with insertion of bronchoscope through the tracheostomy to perform airway clearance and confirm tracheostomy position.

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications.

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 65 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for tracheostomy change.

f/u as outpatient for tracheostomy management.