INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 65-year-old male who presents with respiratory failure. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J96.90 Respiratory Failure 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration, initial episode (CPT 31645) 

Tracheostomy tube change (CPT 31899 Unlisted Procedure) 

ATTENDING [Attending Name]

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer throughout the procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Initial Airway Inspection After adequate sedation, an iGel airway was placed by anesthesia and ventilation continued via the tracheostomy tube.


Glottic Findings: There was a large amount of thick, foul-smelling secretions at the level of the glottis, which were therapeutically aspirated. Moderate edema was noted, and the true vocal cords were unable to be visualized.


Tracheal Findings: A small shelf of tissue was noted along the 12 o'clock to 2 o'clock position where the tracheostomy tube enters. This did not cause significant obstruction. With the cuff of the tracheostomy tube deflated, the bronchoscope easily passed the tracheostomy tube.

Therapeutic Aspiration The bronchoscope was removed and introduced into the existing tracheostomy tube. Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out mucus and mucus plugs from the following segments:

Supraglottic, Vocal Cord, Subglottic

Trachea (Proximal, Middle, and Distal 1/3)

Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2)

Left Mainstem, Carina, LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2).

Tracheostomy Tube Change Under direct visualization from the glottis, the cuff was deflated and the tracheostomy tube was easily removed. The stoma appeared widely patent and some granulation tissue was immediately visualized.

The new tracheostomy tube was placed with the obturator in place. The obturator was removed, the inner cannula was placed, and the cuff was inflated under direct visualization, confirming occlusion of the entire trachea.

Device Exchange Details: Percutaneous tracheostomy was changed from:

Portex cuffed Trach ISO/ID size 8.0mm suctionaid


To: Portex cuffed Trach ISO/ID size 8.0mm suctionaid. The exchange was performed without issue.

Conclusion Pictures and videos were taken from the tracheostomy tube and from the mouth. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS None 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

65-year-old male presented for bronchoscopy for respiratory failure.

Successful therapeutic aspiration of thick, foul-smelling secretions and mucus plugs throughout the tracheobronchial tree.

Tracheostomy tube exchanged successfully from Portex 8.0 to Portex 8.0.


Follow-up: Tracheostomy change in ~3 months.


Orders: DME order for Portex 8.0 inner cannulas.