NOTE_ID:  note_245 SOURCE_FILE: note_245.txt Procedure Name: Pleuroscopy
Indications: Pleural effusion
Medications: Fentanyl 3, versed 75, Lidocaine 30cc 1%
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. The patient was placed on the standard procedural bed in the L lateral decubitus position and sites of compression were well padded. The pleural entry site was identified by means of the ultrasound. The patient was sterilely prepped with chlorhexidine gluconate (Chloraprep) and draped in the usual fashion. The entry sites was infiltrated with a 10mL solution of 1% lidocaine. Following instillation of subcutaneous lidocaine a 1 cm subcutaneous incision was made and gentle dissection was performed until the pleural space was entered.  A 5 mm disposable primary port was then placed on the left side at the 6th anterior axillary line. After allowing air entrainment and lung deflation, suction was applied through the port to remove pleural fluid with removal of approximately 800cc of dark bloody fluid. The rigid pleuroscopy telescope was then introduced through the trocar and advanced into the pleural space. There were multiple thick adhesions and areas of lung tethering to the posterior chest wall. We were unable to identify the diaphragm or apex due to fused lung that would have required extensive lysis to pass. There was extensive inflammation in the adhered lung which we could peel away relatively easily in the thinner areas to expose parietal pleura which was generally normal appearing.  The 5mm port could not fit the optical forceps and we then exchanged the it for a disposable 8mm trochar. Biopsies of the parietal pleura posteriorly as well as areas of non-ventilated fused lung adherent to the pleural (non-functional appearing) were performed with forceps and sent for histopathology examination and culture with approximately 8 total biopsies taken. There was no significant bleeding. The pleuroscopy telescope was then removed and a 15.5 pleural catheter was placed into the pleural space through the primary port with tunneling anteriorly. 

PleurX Catheter Placement:

A guide wire was inserted into the site of pleuroscopy entry and the port was removed. A separate skin site was identified ~5cm inferior to the guidewire insertion site and lidocaine was injected for local analgesia and a <1cm incision was then performed. A subcutaneous tract was then established to the guidewire insertion site with the provided blunt tunneler.  The Pleurx catheter was attached to the tunneler and pulled through the subcutaneous tract. A 16 fr peel away sheath was inserted over the wire via seldinger technique. The PleurX catheter was then inserted through the 16 fr. peel away sheath. Both incisions were closed with subcuticular 0 silk suture. The area was then dressed. The catheter was subsequently connected to the drainage wall suction and minimal serosanguinous fluid was drained.  The patient’s wife was then brought into the room for drainage draining and a PleurX bottle was attached to the catheter and approximate 75cc of bloody fluid was obtained. The catheter tip was then capped and the PleurX was dressed and covered with a translucent dressing. 

The patient tolerated the procedural well.
Post-procedure chest radiograph showed pleural catheter in place.
Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: 75cc
Post Procedure Diagnosis: Pleural effusion 
Recommendation:
Will await pathology and microbiological studies
Patient education on pleural catheter draining performed and patient and wife will return to clinic if needed for more training. 