NOTE_ID:  note_246 SOURCE_FILE: note_246.txt PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: left upper and lower lobe obstruction 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: 
Presumed malignant obstruction of left upper and lower lobe
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: flexible bronchoscopy with cryodebulking, electrocautery snare and APC..
INDICATIONS: bilobar collapse  
Consent was obtained from the patient prior to procedure after explanation in lay terms the indications, details of procedure, and potential risks and alternatives. 
Sedation: General Anesthesia
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the T190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The trachea was normal. On the right there was a small focus of tumor just prximal to the right upper lobe at the anterior wall which was non-obstructive. The right sided airways were otherwise normal. The left mainstem was normal.  At the takeoff of the left lower lobe there was a vascular appearing endobronchial mass causing complete airway obstruction. At the takeoff of the left upper lobe there was a similar appearing vascular endobronchial lesion causing complete airway obstruction. With gentile manipulation of the tumor it was noted to bleed easily. APC was used to devascularize the superficial layer of the left upper and lower lobe tumors.  The electrocautery snare was then used to remove the prximal portion of the left upper lobe tumor after which we cold visualize distal airways. The tumor extended to just proximal to the lingual take-off and distally there did not appear to be evidence of active tumor.  Using APC we used the burn and shave method to slowly debulk the tumor as well as flexible forceps debulking of charred tumor after APC cauterization. Bleeding was moderate and resolved with topical instillation of 1:1000 TXA through the bronchoscope. After debulking in the left upper lobe we had complete opening of the lobar and segmental bronchi. We then brought our attention to the left lower lobe lesion. Using the electrocautery snare in a similar fashion we were able to debulk the proximal tumor. There was much more extensive distal tumor in the lower lobe with tumor involving multiple segmental bronchi. Using the 1.9 mm cryoprobe we are able to extract some of the tissue after which we utilized APC and flexible forceps in a similar fashion as performed in the left upper lobe to slowly debulk the tumor. We were able to open the left lower lobe orifice to approximately 70% of normal but despite our best efforts we could not completely remove the tumor due to the extent of disease and distal tumor infiltration. APC was used at the end of the procedure to paint cauterize any active oozing and once we were satisfied that no further intervention was required and that there was no evidence of active bleeding the flexible bronchoscope was removed and the case was turned over to anesthesia to recover the patient. 
Recommendations:
-	Transfer patient PACU
-	Follow-up PRN if return of symptoms
-	Treatment of metastatic foci per oncology