INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 33-year-old female who presents with hemoptysis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. The patient or surrogate read and signed the provided consent form or provided consent over the phone. The consent was witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

PROCEDURE


31646: Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes 


31641: Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (e.g., laser therapy, cryotherapy) 

Modifier 22 Details: Unusual Procedure. This patient required cryotherapy for removal of organized clot throughout the left-sided airways. This resulted in >100% increased work due to time, technical difficulty of procedure, and physical and mental effort required.


31634: Balloon occlusion or placement of occlusive substance 


31624: Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) 


31635: Foreign body removal 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Diagnostic Bronchoscope 

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.


Patient Position: Supine.

Initial Airway Inspection The tracheostomy tube was in good position.


Pharynx/Larynx/Vocal Cords: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through tracheostomy tube.


Trachea: Distal 1/3 normal.


Main Carina: Sharp.


Right Lung Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to segmental level. Thin rusty secretions were noted. A cavity was noted in the RB2 subsegment.


Left Lung Proximal Airways: An endobronchial balloon was noted at the lingula/LUL with organized clot obscuring evaluation of distal airways. A 7Fr Arndt blocker was noted in the middle of the left mainstem (LMS) with the balloon deflated. Otherwise, normal anatomic branching to segmental level.


Mucosa: Normal.


Secretions: Minimal, thin, and clear.

Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus, blood, and blood clots.

Foreign Body Removal (Blocker Retrieval) The existing blocker (foreign body) was removed under direct visualization without any additional bleeding.

Cryotherapy / Clot Extraction Endobronchial clot at the LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1) and Left Carina (LC2) was treated. A 1.7mm cryoprobe was used to evacuate the LUL airways of organized clot.


Modality: Cryoprobe (1.7mm) 


Duration: 5-10 second freezes 


Results: Excellent clot removal 

Endobronchial Blocker Placement A new 5Fr Uniblocker was positioned at the Left Carina (LC2) and secured in place with the Uniblocker ventilator adaptor. The device was placed at the tape level at the dark blue securement device.


Inflation: Confirmed that 3cc of air was required to inflate the balloon to fully occlude the LUL.


Check: When the blocker balloon was deflated, additional fresh blood was noted coming from LB1/2. The blocker was reinflated with 3cc of air with cessation of bleeding. The endobronchial blocker balloon was left inflated in the LUL.

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) BAL was performed in the Posterior-Basal Segment of LLL (LB10).


Instilled: 60 cc of Normal Saline.


Returned: 15 cc of Normal Saline.


Analysis: Samples sent for Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal).

The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications.

SPECIMENS

BAL (Microbiology/Viral/Fungal) 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 33-year-old female who presented for bronchoscopy for evaluation of hemoptysis.

Cryotherapy (cryoprobe) was used to evacuate the LUL airways of organized clot.

A 5 Fr Uniblocker was placed and left inflated at the LUL.

Plan:

Obtain post-procedure CXR.

Keep blocker up until IR-guided Bronchial Artery Embolization (BAE).

Repeat bronchoscopy [REDACTED] for bleeding evaluation and blocker take down.