NOTE_ID:  note_088 SOURCE_FILE: note_088.txt INDICATION FOR OPERATION:  [REDACTED]is a 57 year old-year-old male who presents with bronchial stenosis.  The nature, purpose, risks, benefits and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.  
 
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified
PROCEDURE:  
31645 Therapeutic aspiration initial episode
31630 Balloon dilation
31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (eg. laser therapy, cryotherapy)
ANESTHESIA: 
General Anesthesia
MONITORING : Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.
INSTRUMENT : 
Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope
Flexible Hybrid (Pedatric) Bronchoscope
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:   Minimum
COMPLICATIONS:    None
PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed (confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location).   
PATIENT POSITION: . 
Initial Airway Inspection Findings:
The laryngeal mask airway is in good position. The vocal cords appear normal. The subglottic space is normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina is sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Airway exam notable for stenosis of the RML (25% patent). 
Moderate clear secretions bilaterally, white thicker mucus eminating from RML. 
Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius , Left Mainstem, and RML Carina (RC2) from mucus and mucus plug. 
Endobronchial obstruction at RML was treated with the following modalities:
Modality	Tools	Setting/Mode	Duration	Results
Electrocautery	Needle Knife	EndoCut I, Effect 3, 3d/2i	 	Radial cuts
APC	 	 	 	 
Laser	 	 	 	 
CoreCath	 	 	 	 
Cryoprobe	1.7mm probe	 	30sec freeze-thaw cycles	Ablation
Balloon dilation was performed at RML.  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 6 mm at the RML.  Total 2 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
Balloon dilation was performed at RML.  6/7/8 Elation balloon was used to perform dilation to 8 mm at the RML.  Total 2 inflations with dilation time of 60 seconds each.
Prior to treatment, affected airway was note to be 25% patent.  After treatment, the airway was 100% patent. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no immediate complications.  At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition. 
SPECIMEN(S): 
None
IMPRESSION/PLAN: [REDACTED]is a 57 year old-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis. RML airway moderately stenosed again, repeat dilation and touch cryotherapy. 
- bronch with dilation in 2 weeks 