INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 22-year-old female who presents with airway stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

Left mainstem stenosis

Left Upper Lobe (LUL) complete fusion

PROCEDURE

31646 Therapeutic aspiration subsequent episodes 

31899NFN Bronchoscopy with Endobronchial Ultrasound (EBUS) 

31630 Balloon dilation 

31641 Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis by any method other than excision (e.g. laser therapy, cryotherapy) 

ATTENDING [Name]

ASSISTANT [Name]

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope, Linear EBUS.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.


Patient Position: [Position] 

Initial Airway Inspection: The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) was in good position.


Pharynx: Not assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through LMA.


Larynx: Normal.


Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions.


Trachea: Mildly tortuous.


Main Carina: Sharp.

Right Lung:


Proximal Airways: Normal anatomic branching to the segmental level.


Mucosa/Findings: No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.


Intervention: Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clear mucus from the Right Mainstem and Bronchus Intermedius.

Left Lung:


Proximal Airways: The distal left mainstem (LMS) bronchus was noted to be slightly stenotic (~8mm).


LUL: Noted to be completely fused with historic obliteration.


LLL: Normal anatomic branching to the segmental level.


Mucosa/Secretions: Mucosa was normal; secretions were minimal, thin, and clear. No mass or lesions identified.

Interventions:


Therapeutic Aspiration: Performed to clear the Left Mainstem of mucus.


LMS Balloon Dilation: A 10/11/12 mm Elation balloon was used to dilate the Left Mainstem stenosis to 10 mm. A total of 1 inflation was performed with a dilation time of 60 seconds.

LUL Recanalization Attempt:

Linear EBUS was used to identify the area of the prior airway.

A needle knife was used to cut into the airway.

The pathway was reinforced using serial needle dilation (25G, 22G, and 19G).

A Mustang balloon was used to engage the airway but was only able to pass 1/4 of the way in; it was unable to dilate open the airway.

The attempt was stopped given the inability to completely engage the LUL passage.

Conclusion: The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMEN(S) None 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

22-year-old female presenting for evaluation of airway stenosis.

LMS stenosis successfully dilated to 10mm.

LUL complete fusion; recanalization attempted with needle knife and serial dilation but aborted due to inability to pass the balloon.

The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications.


Plan: Repeat bronchoscopy in 8 weeks.