INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT
DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 29-year-old male who presents with tracheal stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed. The patient wished to proceed and informed consent was obtained.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified 

Tracheal stenosis with granulation tissue 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration, initial episode (31645) 

Diagnostic bronchoscopy with brushing (31623) 

Destruction of tumor or relief of stenosis by cryotherapy (31641) 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope , 2.4mm Cryoprobe.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimum 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Initial Airway Inspection: The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) was in good position. The pharynx and larynx were not fully assessed due to bronchoscopy introduction through the LMA.


Vocal Cords: Normal without mass/lesions.


Trachea: A tracheal stent was in place with slight granulation tissue noted at the anterior and posterior aspects of the proximal stent. Mild thick yellow mucus was observed within the stent.


Right Lung: Proximal airways showed normal anatomic branching to the segmental level. No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.


Left Lung: Proximal airways showed normal anatomic branching to the segmental level. No evidence of mass, lesions, bleeding, or other endobronchial pathology.


Mucosa: Normal.

Therapeutic Aspiration: Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out mucus from the Trachea (Distal 1/3), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina (RC1), RML Carina (RC2), LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2).

Granulation Tissue Destruction (Cryotherapy): The granulation tissue at the subglottic/proximal stent was treated with the following modalities:


Anterior: The 2.4mm cryoprobe was used to treat the anterior granulation tissue with 30-second freeze-thaw cycles for a total of 4 cycles. Excellent tissue destruction was noted.


Posterior: The granulation tissue at the posterior trachea was treated with the 2.4mm cryoprobe; tissue was frozen to the probe and removed en bloc with the bronchoscope.

Additional Sampling and Hemostasis: Mucus and secretions were removed from within the stent using a combination of saline flushes and a cytology brush. Mild oozing/bleeding was noted and treated successfully with cold saline.

Conclusion: At the conclusion of the procedure, areas of granulation tissue treatment and the stent were inspected. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. The patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

Tracheal tumor/granulation tissue removed with cryoprobe 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 29-year-old male who presented for bronchoscopy for evaluation of tracheal stenosis.

Granulation tissue at the anterior and posterior aspects of the proximal tracheal stent was treated with cryoprobe, achieving excellent tissue debulking.

Post-procedure CXR to be obtained.

Pending pathology results.

Patient to follow up in outpatient IP clinic to go over results and next steps.