NOTE_ID:  note_158 SOURCE_FILE: note_158.txt Procedure Name: 
1.	radial EBUS guided bronchoscopy with TNBA and endobronchial biopsies
Indications: Pulmonary Nodule
Medications: Propofol infusion via anesthesia assistance  
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention. 
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The arytenoids were large with a large and floppy epiglottis. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea is of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. On the right the patient had an anatomic variant with an accessory airway just distal to the superior segment of the right lower lobe. The left sided airway anatomy was normal. No evidence of endobronchial disease was seen to at least the first sub-segments.  We then removed the bronchoscope and inserted the P190 slim bronchoscope into the airway. We attempted to visualize endobronchial disease within the anterior basilar segment of the left lower lobe but could not advance the scope distally enough. We then inserted the radial ultrasound through the working channel of the bronchoscope and an eccentric view of the kno0wn nodule was obtained. We then performed peripheral TBNAs of the point of interest. ROSE did not show obvious malignancy. At this point we removed the slim scope and inserted the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope through the mouth, and advanced into the tracheobronchial tree. We attempted to wedge the scope in the lower lobe to potentially visualize the tumor with ultrasound. We saw an unusual area of soft tissue which did not obviously look like would be expected from the nodule. Two biopsies were performed using the 22G EBUS-TBNA needle. ROSE however showed only blood. Finally, fluoroscopy was brought into the room and the T190 therapeutic video bronchoscope was inserted into the airway and based on anatomical knowledge advanced into the left lower lobe and a large sheath catheter with radial ultrasound to the area of known nodule and a concentric view of the lesion was identified with the radial EBUS. Biopsies were then performed with a variety of instruments to include peripheral needle forceps and brush with fluoroscopic guidance through the sheath. After adequate samples were obtained the bronchoscope was removed. ROSE did not identify malignancy on preliminary samples.  After suctioning blood and secretions and once we were confident that there was no active bleeding the bronchoscope was removed and the procedure completed.
Following completion of the procedure the patient was noted to have audible upper airway sounds and ventilation was difficult.  And decision was made to convert to endotracheal intubation. Initially this was attempted over the bronchoscope however edema within the structures of the middle laryngeal cavity (above the vocal cords this was unsuccessful. Anesthesia was then able to intubate with the glideslope. The bronchoscope was then inserted through the ETT to confirm positioning 2cm above the carina and to suction secretions. The patient was then transferred to the ICU. 

Complications: Unexpected admission
Estimated Blood Loss: Less than 10 cc.
Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Flexible bronchoscopy with successful biopsy of left lower lobe pulmonary nodule
- Will transfer to the ICU and attempt extubation later today. 
- Await final pathology  