INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT
INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 58-year-old female who presents with a lung nodule. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail. The patient indicated a wish to proceed with surgery and informed consent was signed.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule 

ROSE status: Cells present causing suspicion of malignant neoplasm 

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration, initial episode 

Diagnostic bronchoscopy with brushing and lavage (BAL) 

Transbronchial biopsy (TBBX), single lobe 

Transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA), single lobe 

Fiducial marker placement 

Navigational Bronchoscopy (computer assisted) 

Radiologic guidance for CT guided needle placement (CIOS) 

3D rendering with interpretation and reporting (ION Planning Station) 

EBUS sampling (3 or more nodes) 

Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion 

Ultrasound Elastography 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope, Linear EBUS, Radial EBUS, Ion Robotic Bronchoscope, Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS None 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL
After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Initial Airway Inspection & Therapeutic Aspiration Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, and Left Mainstem from mucus.

Robotic Navigational Bronchoscopy (Ion) — RLL Nodule A CT chest scan was placed on a separate planning station to generate a 3D rendering of the pathway to the target. The navigational plan was reviewed, verified, and loaded into the robotic bronchoscopy platform. Robotic navigation was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration.


Targeting: The Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Posterior-basal Segment of the RLL (RB10). The target lesion is about 1.5 cm in diameter. Under navigational guidance, the catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target.


Radial EBUS: Performed to confirm location; the nodule signal was Concentric with a continuous margin.


Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin): A low-dose spin was performed to acquire CT imaging for evaluation of nodule location. The 3D images were reconstructed and interpreted on an independent workstation.


Adjustment: Using the newly acquired nodule location, the Ion robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location. I personally interpreted the cone beam CT and 3-D reconstruction.

RLL Target Sampling

TBNA: Performed with a 21G needle through the extended working channel. Total 6 samples were collected and sent for Cytology.

Transbronchial Biopsy: Performed with alligator forceps. Total 1 sample was collected and sent for Pathology.

Cryobiopsy: Performed with a 1.1mm cryoprobe (freeze time 6 seconds). Total 6 samples were collected and sent for Pathology.

Brushing: Performed with a protected cytology brush. Total 1 sample was collected and sent for Microbiology.

BAL: Instilled 60 cc of NS, suction returned with 15 cc of NS. Samples sent for Microbiology.


Fiducial Marker: A 0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold CIVCO marker was loaded with bone wax and placed under fluoroscopy guidance.


ROSE Results: Cells present causing suspicion of malignant neoplasm.

Inspection prior to withdrawal demonstrated no evidence of bleeding.

EBUS STAGING
Technique All lymph node stations were assessed. Only those 5 mm or greater in short axis were sampled. Lymph node sizing was performed by EBUS and sampling was performed using 25-gauge and 22-gauge needles. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and tissue characteristics.

Lymph Nodes Evaluated & Sampled

Station 11L (< 10 mm):


Elastography: Type 2 pattern (mixed soft and stiff regions), heterogeneous and indeterminate.

Sampling: TBNA directed at representative areas. 4 samples obtained.

Station 7 (Subcarinal, < 10 mm):


Elastography: Type 1 pattern (predominantly soft/green/yellow), suggesting a reactive or benign process.

Sampling: TBNA performed to confirm absence of malignancy. 4 samples obtained.

Station 11Rs (< 10 mm):


Elastography: Type 2 pattern (mixed soft and stiff regions), heterogeneous and indeterminate.

Sampling: TBNA directed at representative areas. 4 samples obtained.

Other sites inspected included 4R, 4L, 10R, 10L, and 11Ri.

DISPOSITION The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

RLL TBCBX, TBNA, Brush, BAL 

TBNA: Stations 11Rs, 11L, 7 

IMPRESSION/PLAN

58-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for lung nodule.

Follow-up in clinic.

Follow-up CXR.