INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

PATIENT: [REDACTED] DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] ATTENDING: [REDACTED]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 68-year-old female who presents with bronchial stenosis. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

J98.09 Other diseases of bronchus, not elsewhere classified

PROCEDURE

Therapeutic aspiration (initial episode) (CPT 31645)

Diagnostic bronchoscopy/lavage (BAL) (CPT 31624)

Endobronchial Biopsy (CPT 31625)

Radial EBUS for peripheral lesion (CPT 31654)

Destruction of tumor OR relief of stenosis (cryotherapy) (CPT 31641)

Foreign body removal (CPT 31635)

Modifier 22 (Unusual Procedural Services): This patient required extensive mechanical excision of endobronchial tissue to salvage the airway as well as stent management given aberrant anatomy. This resulted in >80% increased work due to the technical difficulty of the procedure and the physical and mental effort required. Specifically, the patient presented with a complex airway with significant stenosis of the Left Mainstem Bronchus (LMSB) and complete occlusion of the Left Lower Lobe (LLL) bronchus that required multiple attempts.

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer throughout the procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Disposable Bronchoscope

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Minimal

COMPLICATIONS None

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Initial Airway Inspection and Therapeutic Aspiration An iGel was placed by anesthesia after adequate sedation. Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle 1/3), Trachea (Distal 1/3), Left Mainstem, Carina, LUL Lingula Carina (Lc1), and Left Carina (LC2) from mucus and mucus plugs. The stent was noted to be partially occluded with thick yellow-green mucus.

Foreign Body (Stent) Removal and Debridement It appeared that the LMSB stent had migrated distally and appeared to be covering the LMSB. Using forceps, the proximal end of the Microtech stent was grasped and removed en bloc with the bronchoscope. The foreign body removal was difficult due to significant inflammation.

After removal, the LMSB mucosa was noted to be ragged and irregular, with dynamic collapse. The LUL bronchus was approximately 3-4 mm. The LLL bronchus could not be visualized, and the LC2 was difficult to delineate along the inferior portion.

Endobronchial Tumor Destruction / Stenosis Relief Endobronchial tumor/tissue was noted and excised with mechanical debridement using alligator forceps. A 1.7 mm cryoprobe was utilized with 30-second freeze cycles to achieve vascular occlusion and for further debulking of the LUL ostium.

Radial EBUS Survey Due to complex anatomy, a jag wire was placed in the Lingula. Radial endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) was utilized to identify vasculature and airways, but the LLL was still unable to be identified.

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed at the Superior Segment of the Lingula (LB4). 40 cc of normal saline was instilled, and suction returned 15 cc.

Conclusion The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no immediate complications. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

LUL BAL: Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology

LMSB Endobronchial Biopsy (EBBx): Pathology

IMPRESSION / PLAN

[REDACTED] is a 68-year-old female who presents for bronchoscopy for bronchial stenosis.

Very odd presentation of cicatrization and benign stenosis of the LMSB without evidence of residual malignancy.

Very challenging anatomy of the airway and stenosis.

The patient continues to have a robust inflammatory response; no additional stents were placed.

Admit overnight.

Start antibiotics to treat MSSA; add Prednisone 20 mg.

Obtain CT chest with contrast.

NPO after midnight for repeat bronchoscopy [REDACTED].