INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] INDICATION FOR OPERATION [REDACTED] is a 44-year-old male who presents with lung nodules. The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

R91.1 Solitary Lung Nodule 

PROCEDURE

Robotic Navigational Bronchoscopy (Ion) 

Radial EBUS (rEBUS) 

Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) with 3D rendering 

Transbronchial Needle Aspiration (TBNA) 

Transbronchial Cryobiopsy 

Transbronchial Brushing 

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) 

Fiducial Marker Placement 

Endobronchial Ultrasound (EBUS) Staging 

Therapeutic Aspiration 

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and BP were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer that was present throughout the entire procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Linear EBUS, Radial EBUS, Ion Robotic Bronchoscope, Disposable Bronchoscope.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS Moderate 

COMPLICATIONS None 

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location.

Airway Inspection Initial airway inspection revealed normal appearing airway anatomy and mucosa bilaterally to the segmental level. Secretions were noted and suctioned. A CT Chest scan was placed on a separate planning station to generate a 3D rendering of the pathway to the target, and the navigational plan was reviewed and verified.

Target 1: Left Upper Lobe (Lingula) Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration. The Ion robotic catheter was used to engage the Superior Segment of the Lingula (LB4). The target lesion measured approximately 0.6 cm in diameter. Under navigational guidance, the catheter was advanced to 1.0 cm away from the planned target.


rEBUS: Radial EBUS was performed; the location of the nodule was not well visualized.


Imaging: Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was performed with 3D reconstructions on an independent workstation for evaluation of nodule location. The 3D images were interpreted, and the Ion robotic system was adjusted to the new targeted location based on the reconstruction.

Sampling:


TBNA: Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with a 21G needle (4 samples collected).


Cryobiopsy: Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with a 1.1mm cryoprobe (6 second freeze time, 6 samples collected).


Brushing: Transbronchial brushing was performed with a protected cytology brush (1 sample collected).


BAL: Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed (20 cc instilled, 5 cc returned).


Fiducial: A fiducial marker (0.8mm x 3mm soft tissue gold CIVCO) was loaded with bone wax and placed under fluoroscopy guidance prior to withdrawal.


ROSE: Macrophages noted.

Target 2: Left Upper Lobe (Apical-Posterior) Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration to engage the Apical-Posterior Segment of the LUL (LB1/2). The target lesion measured approximately 0.6 cm.


rEBUS: Radial EBUS confirmed the location of the nodule was eccentric, with a continuous margin and absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.


Imaging: Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was performed, and 3D reconstructions were used to adjust the Ion robotic system to the targeted location.

Sampling:


TBNA: Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with a 21G needle (4 samples collected).


Cryobiopsy: Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with a 1.1mm cryoprobe (6 second freeze time, 6 samples collected).


Brushing: Transbronchial brushing was performed with a protected cytology brush (1 sample collected).


BAL: Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed (20 cc instilled, 5 cc returned).


ROSE: Macrophages noted.

Target 3: Right Upper Lobe (Apical) Robotic navigation bronchoscopy was performed with the Ion platform using partial registration to engage the Apical Segment of the RUL (RB1). The target lesion measured approximately 0.6 cm.


rEBUS: Radial EBUS confirmed the location of the nodule was eccentric, with a continuous margin and absence of linear-discrete air bronchogram.


Imaging: Cone Beam CT (Cios Spin) was performed with 3D reconstructions used to adjust the Ion robotic system to the targeted location.

Sampling:


TBNA: Transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with a 21G needle (4 samples collected).


Cryobiopsy: Transbronchial cryobiopsy was performed with a 1.1mm cryoprobe (6 second freeze time, 6 samples collected).


Brushing: Transbronchial brushing was performed with a protected cytology brush (1 sample collected).


BAL: Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed (20 cc instilled, 5 cc returned).


ROSE: Macrophages noted.

Additional Bronchoalveolar Lavage

Left Upper Lobe: Performed at Apical-Posterior (LB1/2) and Anterior (LB3) segments. Instilled 60 cc, returned 25 cc.

Left Lower Lobe: Performed at Superior (LB6), Anteromedial (LB7/8), Lateral-basal (LB9), and Posterior-Basal (LB10) segments. Instilled 40 cc, returned 15 cc.

Right Upper Lobe: Performed at Apical (RB1), Posterior (RB2), and Anterior (RB3) segments. Instilled 60 cc, returned 20 cc.

EBUS Staging All lymph node stations were assessed, and those 5 mm or greater were sampled. Endobronchial ultrasound elastography was performed to assess lymph node stiffness and guide sampling.

Station 11L: <10 mm. Sampled via EBUS-guided transbronchial biopsy (4 samples).

Station 4L (Lower Paratracheal): <10 mm. Sampled via EBUS-guided transbronchial biopsy (4 samples).

Station 7 (Subcarinal): <10 mm. Sampled via EBUS-guided transbronchial biopsy (4 samples).

Therapeutic Aspiration & Conclusion Successful therapeutic aspiration was performed to clean out the Trachea (Middle/Distal), Right Mainstem, Bronchus Intermedius, Left Mainstem, Carina, RUL Carina, RML Carina, LUL Lingula Carina, and Left Carina from mucus and blood. The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications. The patient was extubated in the operating room and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.

SPECIMENS

Left lower lobe: TBNA, cryobiopsy, brushing, sub-segmental BAL, lobar BAL 

Left upper lobe: TBNA, cryobiopsy, brushing, sub-segmental BAL, lobar BAL 

Right upper lobe: TBNA, cryobiopsy, brushing, sub-segmental BAL, lobar BAL 

EBUS-TBNA: Stations 11L, 4L, 7 

IMPRESSION/PLAN

44-year-old male who presents for bronchoscopy for lung nodules.

Follow up CXR.

Follow up bronchoscopic lab work.