NOTE_ID:  note_156 SOURCE_FILE: note_156.txt Indications: Mediastinal adenopathy
Procedure: EBUS bronchoscopy – single station
Medications: General Anesthesia
Procedure, risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient. All questions were answered and informed consent was documented as per institutional protocol. A history and physical were performed and updated in the pre-procedure assessment record. Laboratory studies and radiographs were reviewed. A time-out was performed prior to the intervention.
Following intravenous medications as per the record and topical anesthesia to the upper airway and tracheobronchial tree, the Q190 video bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. The laryngeal mask airway was in good position. The vocal cords appeared normal. The subglottic space was normal. The trachea was of normal caliber. The carina was sharp. The tracheobronchial tree was examined to at least the first subsegmental level. Bronchial mucosa and anatomy were normal; there are no endobronchial lesions, and no secretions. The video bronchoscope was then removed and the UC180F convex probe EBUS bronchoscope was introduced through the mouth, via laryngeal mask airway and advanced to the tracheobronchial tree. A large, station 7, lymph node was identified and sampling by transbronchial needle aspiration was performed with the Olympus 22G EBUS-TBNA needles with a total of 7 passes performed. Rapid onsite pathological evaluation showed malignancy. Samples were sent for both flow and routine cytology. Following completion of EBUS bronchoscopy, the Q190 video bronchoscope was then re-inserted and DECAMP research bronchoscopy was performed with endobronchial forceps biopsy of the right upper lobe, right middle lobe and left upper lobe as well as endobronchial brushing of bronchus intermedius. After suctioning blood and secretions there was no evidence of active bleeding and the bronchoscope was subsequently removed. 

Complications: No immediate complications
Estimated Blood Loss: 5cc
Post Procedure Diagnosis:
- Technically successful flexible bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound-guided biopsies and DECAMP research protocol. 
- The patient has remained stable and has been transferred in good condition to the post-procedural monitoring unit.
- Will await final pathology results
