INTERVENTIONAL PULMONOLOGY OPERATIVE REPORT

DATE OF PROCEDURE: [Date] CC Referred Physician: [Referred Physician Name]

INDICATION FOR OPERATION The patient is a 74-year-old female who presents with Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD). The nature, purpose, risks, benefits, and alternatives to Bronchoscopy were discussed with the patient in detail.

CONSENT Obtained before the procedure. Indications, potential complications, and alternatives were discussed with the patient or surrogate. Consent was signed and witnessed by an assisting medical professional.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

Interstitial Lung Disease 

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

Interstitial Lung Disease 

Bleeding requiring endobronchial blocker placement 

PROCEDURE

Flexible Bronchoscopy 

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) 

Radial Endobronchial Ultrasound (rEBUS) 

Transbronchial Forceps Biopsy (TBBX) 

Transbronchial Cryobiopsy 

Endobronchial Blocker Placement for Hemostasis 

Therapeutic Aspiration 

ATTENDING [Attending Name]

ANESTHESIA General Anesthesia 

MONITORING Pulse oximetry, heart rate, telemetry, and blood pressure were continuously monitored by an independent trained observer throughout the procedure.

INSTRUMENTATION Flexible Therapeutic Bronchoscope, Radial EBUS, 1.7 mm cryoprobe, Arndt bronchial blocker.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS 50 cc but continued bleeding 

COMPLICATIONS Bleeding requiring endobronchial blocker and ICU admission.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL After the successful induction of anesthesia, a timeout was performed confirming the patient's name, procedure type, and procedure location. Patient Position: Supine.

Initial Airway Inspection The patient was sedated by anesthesia. The bronchoscope was used to fiberoptically intubate the patient with a size 7 Arndt blocker alongside the endotracheal tube (ETT). The vocal cords were normal in structure and function. Evaluation of the airway was performed; there were no endobronchial lesions and the mucosa was normal. The loop of the endobronchial blocker was moved to the RLL lateral subsegment.

Bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) Bronchial alveolar lavage was performed at the Medial Segment of the RML (RB5). 40 cc of Normal Saline was instilled, and suction returned 25 cc. Samples were sent for Cell Count, Microbiology (Cultures/Viral/Fungal), and Cytology.

Radial EBUS Survey Radial EBUS was performed to confirm there were no enlarged blood vessels in the segment of the RLL lateral segment (RB9).

Transbronchial Biopsies


Forceps Biopsy: Transbronchial biopsy was performed with alligator forceps at the Lateral-basal Segment of the RLL (RB9). Total 1 sample was collected and sent for pathology. There was no bleeding after this biopsy.


Cryobiopsy: Transbronchial biopsy was performed with a 1.7 mm cryoprobe with a 4-second freeze. The scope and the cryoprobe were removed together from the Lateral-basal Segment of the RLL (RB9). Total 1 sample was collected and sent for pathology.

Hemostasis and Complication Management Immediately after removal of the bronchoscope following the cryobiopsy, significant bleeding occurred. The balloon on the blocker was inflated with 3 cc. The balloon was left inflated for a total of 2 minutes, but at the time of deflation, there was continued bleeding.


Intervention: A total of 1000 mg of Tranexamic Acid (TXA), 2 mg epinephrine, and 5 cc iced saline were given through the end of the inflated blocker.


Isolation: Additional isolation time was performed in intervals of 5 minutes, followed by 10 minutes, followed by another 10 minutes. Total time with blocker inflation was 24 minutes.

Conclusion The ETT is at 21 cm at the front teeth and the blocker is at 29 cm at the front teeth. The patient tolerated the procedure well despite the bleeding event. At the conclusion of the operation, due to continued bleeding, the patient was transferred to the ICU for continued care.

SPECIMENS

BAL RML 

TBBX right lower lobe 

Cryo-TBBX right lower lobe 

IMPRESSION / PLAN

74-year-old female with ILD underwent bronchoscopy for diagnosis.

Transbronchial cryobiopsy of the RLL resulted in bleeding requiring endobronchial blocker placement and pharmacologic hemostasis.

Transfer to ICU.

Plan for repeat bronchoscopy in ICU if indicated.